CITY CODE
of
MT. PULASKI, ILLINOIS
2010
Code current through:
Ord. 10272020, passed 10-27-2020
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Mt. Pulaski, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 10272020, passed October 27, 2020.  Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
MT. PULASKI CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretation
1-1-5: Distribution Of Copies
1-1-6: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Mt. Pulaski. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the MT. PULASKI CITY CODE, and
it is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date
as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the city attorney, acting for the
city council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate
chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title
in any legal documents. (1977 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1977 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (1977 Code)
Any addition or amendment to this code, when passed in such form as to indicate
the intention of the city council to make the same a part of this code shall be
deemed to be incorporated in this code so that a reference to the municipal
code of Mt. Pulaski shall be understood to include them. (1967 Code § 29.201)
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep at least one copy of the
municipal code which he shall mark in the following manner: Whenever any
ordinance which amends or makes an addition to the code is passed and approved,
he shall note on the margin of the section or sections amended that such
amendment has been made with a reference in the amendment, hereinafter
described, where the amendment may be found, and in the case of an addition, he
shall mark in the appropriate place a notation that such addition has been
made, with a similar reference to the aforementioned amendment book.
The city clerk shall also keep a separate book containing every amendment or
addition passed to this code, with a reference on each copy of such amendment
or addition as to the place in the record of ordinances where the original
ordinance may be found.
The above mentioned records shall be kept in addition to the record of
ordinances which the clerk is required to keep by statute. (1967 Code § 29.203)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   B.   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person,
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1977 Code)
1-1-5: DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES:
All of the printed copies of this code belonging to the city shall be deposited
with the clerk. He shall deliver one copy thereof to the mayor and each member
of the city council, and copies to such other persons as the city council may
direct. (1967 Code § 29.302)
The city council shall have the power to extend or reciprocate courtesies of
other municipalities by presenting them with a copy of this code, bound at the
expense of the city, as to them seems suitable. (1967 Code § 29.303)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(1977 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (1977 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (1977 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1977 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1977 Code; amd. 2010
Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Mt. Pulaski".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2010 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Mt. Pulaski, county of Logan, state of Illinois.
CODE: The city code of the city of Mt. Pulaski.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Mt.
Pulaski.
COUNTY: The county of Logan, state of Illinois.
FISCAL YEAR: The "fiscal year" for the city shall begin on June 1 of each year
and end on May 31 of the following year.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1967 Code § 10.702; amd. 2010 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: License Revocation
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) and not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), notwithstanding any alternative existing fine structure set forth in
other sections of this code. The following penalty sections shall be exempt
from the minimum fine amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and shall
remain at the minimum fine as stated in each respective penalty section:
subsections
6-4-1C, 7-3-3B and section
8-10-5 of this code. No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty or
cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense. Failure of a violator of
any section of this code to pay an imposed fine within the time prescribed by
the issuing officer shall subject the violator to the penalties as stated in
this general penalty section through prosecution in the circuit court by the
city attorney. In all cases, the charging document may set forth the amount of
fines to be paid to avoid a court appearance. However, in order to avoid said
court appearance, all the nuisances and violations cited in the charging
document must also be abated to the satisfaction of the designated code
official. (Ord., 4-9-2013)
      2.   A penalty for each offense may include a requirement that the
offending party perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not
limited to, picking up litter in public parks or upon public highways or
performing maintenance of public facilities. A violation hereof may be
established by a preponderance of the evidence.
      3.   A default in the payment of a fine or any installment of a fine may
be collected by any means authorized for the collection of monetary judgments.
The city attorney may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the
purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or installment of that
fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the city with respect to attorneys or
private collection agents retained by the city attorney under this subsection
shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the city shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: LICENSE REVOCATION:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by the city council. (1977 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2010 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2010
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election
1-5-2: Bond
1-5-3: Duties
1-5-4: Appointment Of Officers
1-5-5: Designation Of Officers' Duties
1-5-6: Mayor Pro Tem
1-5-7: Acting Mayor
1-5-8: Formal Occasions
1-5-9: Salary
1-5-1: ELECTION:
The mayor shall be elected for a four (4) year term, and shall serve until his
successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute. (1967 Code §
1.001)
1-5-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the mayor shall execute a bond
in such amount and with such sureties as may be required by the council,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office, provided
the amount of such bond shall not be less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00). (1967 Code § 1.008)
1-5-3: DUTIES:
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city, and shall preside
over the meetings of the council, and perform such duties as may be required of
him by statute or ordinance. He shall have supervision over all of the
executive officers and employees of the city, and shall have the power and
authority to inspect all books and records pertaining to city affairs, which
are kept by any officer or employee of the city, at any reasonable time. (1967
Code § 1.002)
1-5-4: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS:
The mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the city
council, all officers of the city whose election or appointment is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall
be filled in the same manner. (1967 Code § 1.003)
1-5-5: DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS' DUTIES:
Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointive officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the mayor
after consultation with the city attorney, and the mayor shall have the power
to delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty. (1967 Code § 1.004)
1-5-6: MAYOR PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the mayor, the city council shall
elect one of its number to act as mayor pro tem who, during such absence or
disability, shall possess the powers of mayor, as is provided by statute. (1967
Code § 1.005)
1-5-7: ACTING MAYOR:
In the event of a vacancy in the office of mayor, the council may appoint one
of its members as acting mayor to serve until the vacancy is filled at a
regular or special election, as provided by the statutory language in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-50. (1967 Code § 1.006; amd. 1977 Code)
1-5-8: FORMAL OCCASIONS:
The mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions and
receptions, but in his absence or inability to attend any such function, the
council may select any other city officer to so act. (1967 Code § 1.007)
1-5-9: SALARY:
The monthly salary of the mayor and the monthly expense account of the mayor
shall be fixed from time to time by the city council. Changes in the monthly
salary shall be effective beginning with the term of office of the mayor
following the next general election after the change is made by the city
council. (Ord., 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Functions
1-6-2: Meetings
1-6-3: Mayor To Preside; Deciding Vote
1-6-4: Ordinances, Resolutions And Motions
1-6-5: Quorum
1-6-6: Committees
1-6-7: Records
1-6-8: Surety Bonds
1-6-9: Order Of Business
1-6-10: Rescinded Action
1-6-11: Resolutions In Writing
1-6-12: Addressing Meetings
1-6-13: Suspension Of Rules
1-6-14: Robert's Rules Of Order
1-6-15: Disturbing Meetings
1-6-16: Salary
1-6-1: ELECTION; FUNCTIONS:
The members of the city council shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year
term. The council shall be the legislative division of the city government and
shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be authorized by statute.
(1967 Code § 2.101)
1-6-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular And Adjourned Meetings: The regular meetings of the council
shall be held on the second and fourth Tuesdays of each month at the hour of
six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. Provided, that if the regular meeting falls on a
legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next day at the same hour.
Adjourned meetings may be held at such other times as the council may
determine. (Ord., 8-24-1981; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the council may be called by the
mayor or three (3) aldermen; provided, that a written notice of such meeting
shall be given to each member of the council at least forty eight (48) hours
before the time set for the meeting. (1967 Code § 2.103; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Open To The Public: All meetings of the city council, with the
exceptions as provided in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5120/2(c), shall be open
to the public. (1967 Code § 2.207; amd. 2010 Code)
1-6-3: MAYOR TO PRESIDE; DECIDING VOTE:
The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the city council. He shall not vote
on any ordinance, resolution or motion except: a) where the vote of the
aldermen has resulted in a tie; or b) where one-half (1/2) of the aldermen
elected have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion, even though
there is no tie vote; or c) where a vote greater than a majority of the
corporate authorities is required by statute or an ordinance to adopt an
ordinance, resolution or motion. In all instances specified, the mayor shall
vote. Nothing in this section shall deprive an acting mayor or mayor pro tem
from voting in his capacity as alderman, but he shall not be entitled to
another vote in his capacity as acting mayor or mayor pro tem. (1967 Code §
2.104; amd. 2010 Code)
1-6-4: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS:
   A.   Approval; Veto: All resolutions and motions: 1) which create any
liability against the city; or 2) which provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of its money; or 3) to sell any city school property, and all
ordinances, passed by the city council shall be deposited with the city clerk.
If the mayor approves of them, he shall sign them. Those of which he
disapproves, he shall return to the city council, with his written objections,
at the next regular meeting of the city council occurring not less than five
(5) days after their passage. The mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums
appropriated in any ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation,
and if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the mayor may disapprove
entirely of an ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the
mayor fails to return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with
his written objections within the designated time, it shall become effective
despite the absence of his signature. (1967 Code § 2.105; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto: Every resolution and motion
specified in subsection A of this section and every ordinance which is returned
to the city council by the mayor shall be reconsidered by the city council at
the next regular meeting following the regular meeting at which the city
council receives the mayor's written objection. If, after such reconsideration,
two-thirds (2/3) of all the aldermen elected to the city council shall agree at
that regular meeting to pass an ordinance, resolution or motion,
notwithstanding the mayor's refusal to approve it, then it shall be effective.
The vote on the question of passage over the mayor's veto shall be by yeas and
nays and shall be recorded in the journal. (1967 Code § 2.106; amd. 2010 Code)
1-6-5: QUORUM:
A majority of the corporate authorities shall constitute a quorum thereof, but
no ordinance or measure for the expenditure of money shall be passed except
upon the favorable vote of a majority of such members, as provided by statute.
(1967 Code § 2.107; amd. 2010 Code)
1-6-6: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees: The following shall be the standing committees of
the city council:
Finance
   Police
   Streets and alleys
   Waterworks and sewerage system
   (1967 Code § 2.108; amd. 1977 Code; 2010 Code)
   B.   Special Committees: The mayor shall appoint such special committees as
he may deem necessary or as may be directed by the council. (1967 Code § 2.109)
   C.   Membership Of Committees: The mayor shall appoint the members of all
standing and special committees, in the absence of specific direction by the
council, and shall designate the chair thereof. Every committee of the council
shall consist of three (3) members, including the chair, unless the city
council shall provide otherwise. (1967 Code § 2.110)
1-6-7: RECORDS:
The city clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the council proceedings.
(1967 Code § 2.111)
1-6-8: SURETY BONDS:
Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the city is required as a prerequisite to
exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the issuance of a
license or permit, or for the exercise of any special privilege, a bond with
surety to be approved by the city council shall be furnished.
Whenever, in its opinion, additional sureties or an additional surety may be
needed on any bond to indemnify the city against loss or liability because of
the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties or for any other reason, the
city council may order a new surety or sureties to be secured for such bond. If
such new surety or sureties are not procured within ten (10) days from the time
such order is transmitted to the principal of the bond, or his assignee, the
city council shall declare the bond to be void, and thereupon, such principal
or assignee shall be deemed to have surrendered the privilege or position as
condition of which the bond was required. (1967 Code § 10.705)
1-6-9: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business at meetings of the city council shall be as follows:
   A.   Call to order.
   B.   Roll call.
   C.   Pledge of Allegiance.
   D.   Public comments/guests.
   E.   Claims and accounts.
   F.   Reports by officers:
Police chief
   Director of public works
   City treasurer
   G.   Old business.
   H.   New business.
   I.   Miscellaneous. (1967 Code § 2.201; amd. 2010 Code)
1-6-10: RESCINDED ACTION:
No vote or action of the city council shall be rescinded at any special meeting
unless there be present at such special meeting as many members of the council
as were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken, as provided
by statute. (1967 Code § 2.202)
1-6-11: RESOLUTIONS IN WRITING:
Any resolution submitted to the city council shall be reduced to writing before
being voted upon, at the request of any two (2) members of the council. (1967
Code § 2.203)
1-6-12: ADDRESSING MEETINGS:
No person other than the mayor or a member of the city council shall address
that body at any regular or special meeting thereof except upon consent of a
majority of the members present. (1967 Code § 2.204)
1-6-13: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended at
any time by consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting. (1967
Code § 2.205)
1-6-14: ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER:
Except when in conflict with the foregoing provisions, "Robert's Rules Of
Order" shall govern the deliberations of the council. (1967 Code § 2.206)
1-6-15: DISTURBING MEETINGS:
It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the city council or of any
committee thereof, or to behave in a disorderly manner at any such meeting. Any
person violating this section shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1967 Code § 2.112; amd. 1977 Code)
1-6-16: SALARY:
The monthly salary of the aldermen shall be fixed from time to time by the city
council. Changes in the monthly salary shall be effective beginning with the
term of office of the aldermen following the next general election after the
change is made by the city council. (Ord., 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Effect
1-7-2: Election Of Officers
1-7-3: Appointment Of Officers
1-7-4: Term Of Office; Vacancies
1-7-5: Monies Received
1-7-6: Oath
1-7-7: Salaries
1-7-8: Records
1-7-9: Bond
1-7-10: Arrests
1-7-11: Termination Of Office
1-7-12: Impersonation
1-7-13: Interference With Officers
1-7-14: Inspection By City Officers
1-7-15: Scene Of Accident; Assistance
1-7-1: EFFECT:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers and employees
of the city, regardless of the time of the creation of the office or position,
or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee. (1967 Code § 10.101)
1-7-2: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
Elections for municipal offices shall be held as provided by statute, and at
the time prescribed by statute. (1967 Code § 10.704)
1-7-3: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS:
All officers other than elective officers shall be appointed by the mayor, by
and with the consent of the city council, as is provided by statute; provided,
that all employees shall, in the absence of any provisions to the contrary, be
appointed or selected by the mayor. (1967 Code § 10.102)
1-7-4: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
Every appointive officer of the city shall hold office until May 1 following
his appointment, or until his successor is appointed and qualified, unless it
is otherwise provided by ordinance. In case of a vacancy in any such office, it
shall be filled in the same manner in which appointments or selections are
made, in the absence of provision to the contrary. (1967 Code § 10.103)
1-7-5: MONIES RECEIVED:
Every officer of the city shall turn over all monies received by him in his
official capacity, together with a statement showing the source from which said
monies were received, to the city collector by Friday morning of each week, and
the city collector shall deposit such monies in the depository bank of the city
before the closing of such bank on Friday afternoon of the same day. (Ord., 10-
23-1990)
1-7-6: OATH:
Every officer of the city shall, before entering upon his duties, take the oath
prescribed by statute. (1967 Code § 10.105)
1-7-7: SALARIES:
All officers and employees of the city shall receive such salaries as may from
time to time be provided by ordinance or resolution. (1967 Code § 10.106)
1-7-8: RECORDS:
All records kept by any officer of the city shall be open to inspection by the
mayor, or any member of the city council, at all reasonable times, whether or
not such records are required to be kept by statute or ordinance. (1967 Code §
10.108)
1-7-9: BOND:
Every officer or employee shall, if required by the city council or state law,
upon entering upon the duties of his office, give a bond in such amount and
with such sureties as may be determined by the said city council, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office or position. (1967
Code § 10.109; amd. 1977 Code)
1-7-10: ARRESTS:
The mayor, members of the city council, as well as every member of the police
department who are certified pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-
15-25 are hereby declared to be conservators of the peace, with such powers as
are given to conservators of the peace by statute. (1967 Code § 10.110; amd.
2010 Code)
1-7-11: TERMINATION OF OFFICE:
Every officer and employee of the city, upon the expiration of his term for any
cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his successor all books and records which
may be the property of the city, and if no successor has been appointed within
one week after the termination of office, such property shall be delivered to
the city clerk or city treasurer. (1967 Code § 10.111)
1-7-12: IMPERSONATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate, without lawful authority,
any city officer or employee. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1967 Code § 10.112; amd. 1977 Code)
1-7-13: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS:
It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of the
city while engaged in the duties of his office or employment. Any person
violating any provision of this section shall be subject to penalty under the
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1967 Code § 10.113; amd. 1977 Code)
1-7-14: INSPECTION BY CITY OFFICERS:
Any officer or employee of the city who is authorized to enforce ordinances may
make such inspections as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of such
ordinances.
Whenever such officer or employee shall have reason to believe that there
exists on or in any premises in the city any nuisance dangerous to public
health, any fire hazard, any structural defect likely to result in injury to
person or property, or any electric wiring or equipment in such condition as to
present a fire hazard or a danger to persons, he shall ask permission of the
occupant of such premises, or the owner or custodian thereof if the premises is
unoccupied, to inspect the same.
Each such occupant or owner shall permit such inspection at any reasonable
time. Any such occupant or owner who refuses to permit such inspection shall be
subject to penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1967 Code § 10.114; amd. 1977 Code)
1-7-15: SCENE OF ACCIDENT; ASSISTANCE:
All employees of all departments of the city who are in charge at the scene of
any accident, sudden emergency or calamity occurring within the jurisdiction of
the city are hereby given the right to hire such person or persons who may be
present or summoned to assist in any such accident, sudden emergency or
calamity. Such person or persons so hired, as aforesaid, are hereby covered as
employees of the city under the workers' compensation law of the state of
Illinois. (Ord., 10-24-1978)
CHAPTER 8
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election; Term
1-8-2: Bond
1-8-3: Duties
1-8-4: Records
1-8-5: Corporate Seal
1-8-6: Vacancies
1-8-7: Salary
1-8-1: ELECTION; TERM:
The city clerk shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year term and until
his successor is elected and qualified, as provided by statute. (1967 Code §
4.001)
1-8-2: BOND:
Before entering upon his duties of office, the city clerk shall execute a bond
in such amount as is provided by statute, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his duties. (1967 Code § 4.002)
1-8-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Signatures: The city clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
city and all licenses, permits and such other documents as shall require this
formality. (1967 Code § 4.003)
   B.   Monies Collected: The clerk shall turn over all monies received by him
on behalf of the city to the city treasurer promptly upon receipt of the same,
and with such monies, he shall give a statement as to the source thereof. (1967
Code § 4.004)
   C.   Accounts: The clerk shall keep accounts showing all monies received by
him and the source and disposition thereof, and such other accounts as may be
required by statute or ordinance. (1967 Code § 4.005)
   D.   Documents: The clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging
to the city which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer. (1967
Code § 4.008)
   E.   Indices: The clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all
documents and records kept by him so that ready access thereto and use thereof
may be had. (1967 Code § 4.009)
   F.   Custodian Of Public Property: The city clerk shall be the custodian of
all property of the city which is not assigned to the care or custody of some
other officer. (1967 Code § 4.010)
   G.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the clerk
shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required by statute or
ordinance. (1967 Code § 4.011)
1-8-4: RECORDS:
In addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the clerk is
required by statute to keep, he shall keep a register of all licenses and
permits issued, and the payments thereof; a record showing all of the officers
and regular employees of the city; and such other records as may be required by
the city council. (1967 Code § 4.006)
1-8-5: CORPORATE SEAL:
The clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal and shall affix its
impression upon documents whenever this is required. (1967 Code § 4.007)
The seal of the city shall be a circular disk with the word "Seal" in the inner
circle and the words "City of Mt. Pulaski, Illinois" on the periphery thereof.
(1967 Code § 10.701)
1-8-6: VACANCIES:
In case the office of city clerk shall become vacant for any reason, the mayor
and city council shall appoint a successor as provided by statute. (1967 Code §
4.012)
1-8-7: SALARY:
The monthly salary of the city clerk shall be fixed from time to time by the
city council. Changes in the monthly salary shall be effective beginning with
the term of office of the city clerk following the next general election after
the change is made by the city council. (Ord., 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 9
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Election; Term
1-9-2: Bond
1-9-3: Duties
1-9-4: Salary
1-9-1: ELECTION; TERM:
The city treasurer shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year term and
until his successor is qualified, as provided by statute. (1967 Code § 5.001)
1-9-2: BOND:
The treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
duties and to indemnify the city for any loss due to neglect of duty or
wrongful act on his part, and the amount of such bond shall be not less than
three (3) times the latest federal census population or any subsequent census
figure used for motor fuel tax purposes. Such bond shall be filed with the
clerk, as required by statute. (1967 Code § 5.002; amd. 2010 Code)
1-9-3: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The treasurer shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed for him by statute or by ordinance. He shall receive all monies paid
to the city, either directly from the person paying said monies or from the
hands of such other officer as may receive said monies, and he shall pay out
monies only on vouchers or orders properly signed by the city clerk and the
mayor. (1967 Code § 5.003)
   B.   Deposit Of Funds: He shall deposit the city funds in such depositories
as may be selected from time to time, as is provided by law, and he shall keep
the city monies separate and distinct from his own, and shall not intermingle
his own monies with city monies or make private or personal use of the city
funds. (1967 Code § 5.004)
   C.   Records: The treasurer shall keep records showing all monies received
by him, the source from which said monies were received, and the purpose for
which said monies were paid out; and he shall keep a record showing at all
times the financial status of the city. (1967 Code § 5.005)
   D.   Accounts: The treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by the city council, and shall keep them in the manner required by the
city council. (1967 Code § 5.006)
   E.   Reports: The treasurer shall make monthly reports to the city council
showing the state of finances of the city, and the amounts received and spent
during the month, which reports shall be filed; and he shall make an annual
report after the close of the fiscal year, as required by statute, with the
total amount of all receipts and expenditures of the city, and his transactions
as treasurer during the preceding year. (1967 Code § 5.007)
1-9-4: SALARY:
The monthly salary of the city treasurer shall be fixed from time to time by
the city council. Changes in the monthly salary shall be effective beginning
with the term of office of the treasurer following the next general election
after the change is made by the city council. (Ord., 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 10
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Creation Of Office
1-10-2: Suits And Actions
1-10-3: Duties
1-10-4: Additional Counsel
1-10-5: Compensation
1-10-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of city attorney, an executive office of the
city. The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the city council. (1967 Code § 6.101)
1-10-2: SUITS AND ACTIONS:
The city attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law
or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be interested,
or which may be brought against or by any officer of the city on behalf of the
city, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the city. (1967 Code §
6.102)
1-10-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Judgments: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
city, and of all similar interlocutory orders. (1967 Code § 6.103)
   B.   Advice: The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the city whenever
requested to do so by any city official. Upon request by the mayor or by the
city council, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing. (1967 Code § 6.104)
   C.   Special Assessments And Condemnations: It shall be the duty of the city
attorney to see to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings. (1967 Code § 6.105)
   D.   Ordinances And Documents: It shall be the city attorney's duty to draft
or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other document or
instrument to which the city may be a party; and, upon request by the council,
to draft ordinances or resolutions covering any subjects within the power of
the city. (1967 Code § 6.106)
1-10-4: ADDITIONAL COUNSEL:
The city council may retain or authorize the employment of other counsel to
give advice or render services to the city. (1967 Code § 6.107)
1-10-5: COMPENSATION:
The city attorney shall be compensated by a flat dollar amount for each city
council meeting he/she attends, at a flat dollar amount set from time to time
by the city council. For other work performed for the city, the city attorney
shall be compensated at an hourly rate then customarily charged by attorneys in
Logan County. (Ord., 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 11
BUILDING INSPECTORS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Building Inspector
1-11-2: Electrical Inspector
1-11-3: Plumbing Inspector
1-11-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Creation Of Position; Appointment: There is hereby created the office
of building inspector, who shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the
advice and consent of the city council. (1967 Code § 6.201; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the building inspector to see to the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to buildings or zoning, and to
inspect all buildings or structures being erected or altered, as frequently as
may be necessary to ensure compliance with the ordinances of the city. (1967
Code § 6.202)
   C.   Ex Officio Electrical Inspector: The building inspector shall be ex
officio electrical inspector and shall perform the duties of that office. (1967
Code § 6.203)
   D.   Ex Officio Plumbing Inspector: The building inspector shall be ex
officio plumbing inspector and shall perform all the duties of that office.
(1967 Code § 6.204)
   E.   Stop Work Order 1 :
      1.   The building inspector shall have the power to order all work
stopped on construction or alteration or repair of buildings in the city when
such work is being done in violation of any provision of any ordinance relating
thereto, or in violation of any zoning ordinance. Work shall not be resumed
after the issuance of such an order except upon the written permission of the
inspector; provided, that if the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within twenty four (24) hours. Such written
stop order may be served by any police officer. (1967 Code § 6.205; amd. 2010
Code)
      2.   Any person who shall continue work in violation of a stop order of
the building inspector shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day on which any work
in violation of such stop order is done. (1967 Code § 6.207; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Entry Powers: The building inspector shall have the power to make or
cause to be made an entry into any building or premises where the work of
altering, repairing or constructing is going on, for the purpose of making
inspection, at any reasonable hour. (1967 Code § 6.206)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 1-11-3C of this chapter and section
  4-2-9 of this code.
1-11-2: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Creation Of Position; Appointment: There is hereby created the office
of electrical inspector, an executive office of the city. The electrical
inspector shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent
of the city council. (1967 Code § 6.301; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Powers: The electrical inspector shall have the right, during
reasonable hours, to enter any building in the discharge of his official
duties, or for the purpose of making an inspection or test of the electrical
equipment therein, and he shall have the authority and be charged with the duty
to enforce all ordinance provisions relating to electrical wiring and
equipment. (1967 Code § 6.302)
   C.   Emergencies: The electrical inspector shall have the power to cause the
current in any wire or conduit to be turned off whenever this is necessary in
an emergency for the protection of life and property. (1967 Code § 6.303)
   D.   Inspection: The electrical inspector shall make all inspections
necessary to see to the enforcement of the city ordinances, and no electric
wiring shall be covered until it has been inspected. (1967 Code § 6.304)
   E.   Certificate: The electrical inspector shall give a certificate of
approval to the owner or person in charge of the premises which he has
inspected where he finds that the electrical apparatus and wiring therein fully
comply with the ordinances of the city. (1967 Code § 6.305)
1-11-3: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Creation Of Office; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
plumbing inspector, an executive office of the city. The plumbing inspector
shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city
council. (1967 Code § 6.401)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector and he is hereby
empowered to enforce all city ordinances relating to the installation, care and
standards of plumbing. He shall make all necessary inspections and tests which
may be needed in the performance of his duties. (1967 Code § 6.402)
   C.   Stop Work Order 1 :
      1.   Whenever the plumbing inspector shall find plumbing work being done
in violation of the city ordinances, he shall have the power to order the work
stopped until there is compliance with the ordinances. It shall be unlawful to
continue any such work after a stop order has been issued, except upon written
order of the mayor or of the plumbing inspector; provided, that when such a
stop order is an oral order, it shall be followed by a written stop order
within twenty four (24) hours. (1967 Code § 6.403; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Any person who shall continue work in violation of a stop order
shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation of a stop order
occurs or continues 2 . (1967 Code § 6.405; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Entry Powers: The plumbing inspector shall have the power to enter any
building or premises on or in which plumbing fixtures or pipes are being
installed, altered or repaired, at all reasonable hours, to make inspections to
ensure compliance with the ordinances of the city relative thereto. (1967 Code
§ 6.404)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 1-11-1E of this chapter and section
  4-2-9 of this code.
2 2. See also section
  4-1A-7 of this code.
CHAPTER 12
SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
(Rep. by Ord. 20-2252020, 2-25-2020)
CHAPTER 13
SUPERINTENDENTS OF SEWERS AND WATER
(Rep. by Ord. 20-2252020, 2-25-2020)
CHAPTER 14
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-14-1: Appropriations
1-14-2: Tax Levy
1-14-3: Indebtedness
1-14-4: Contracts
1-14-5: Approval Of Bills
1-14-6: Payments By Treasurer
1-14-7: Audit
1-14-1: APPROPRIATIONS:
During the first quarter of each fiscal year, as required by statute, the city
council shall enact an appropriation ordinance in which shall be itemized all
anticipated expenditures to be met during the coming year, other than those
payable from bond issues.
The appropriation ordinance shall be published, as required by law, within
thirty (30) days after its enactment. (1967 Code § 10.201; amd. 2010 Code)
1-14-2: TAX LEVY:
No sooner than thirty (30) days after the publication of the appropriation
ordinance, a tax levy ordinance shall be enacted, as required by law, levying
such taxes as may be needed to meet the anticipated expenses of the coming
year, together with such taxes as may be required to meet outstanding bond
issues, or for purposes payable from special taxes properly authorized. (1967
Code § 10.202; amd. 2010 Code)
A certified copy of the tax levy ordinance shall be filed with the county clerk
not later than the last Tuesday in December. Such ordinance shall show the
total appropriation for each item, in the amount of tax levy therefor. (Ord.,
11-25-1997)
1-14-3: INDEBTEDNESS:
No indebtedness shall be incurred, excepting such indebtedness as may be
payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a
designated specified source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which
such indebtedness could be paid, as provided by statute. Provided, that during
the first quarter of any fiscal year, before the enactment of the current
appropriation ordinance, the city may operate under the appropriation ordinance
of the preceding year. (1967 Code § 10.203)
1-14-4: CONTRACTS:
The mayor, or any other person designated by the city council, may sign on
behalf of the city any contract authorized by the city council. No contract may
be entered into without the authority of the city council. (1967 Code § 10.204)
1-14-5: APPROVAL OF BILLS:
All bills payable by the city, other than for the payment of salaries
established by the city council, shall be submitted to the city council for
approval before payment. (1967 Code § 10.205)
1-14-6: PAYMENTS BY TREASURER:
The treasurer shall pay out monies in payment of all bills, or for salaries, or
for any other purpose other than the retirement of principal or interest on
bonds or tax anticipation warrants only upon warrant signed by the mayor and
the clerk, as provided by statute. Such warrants shall designate the items to
be paid and the funds from which they are to be paid. (1967 Code § 10.206)
1-14-7: AUDIT:
As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year and no later than six
(6) months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the city made
by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of
Illinois, to be designated by the city council. Copies of such audit report
shall be filed with the corporate authorities and with the state comptroller,
and in such other places as may be required by law. (1967 Code § 10.207; amd.
2010 Code)
CHAPTER 15
WARD BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-15-1: Ward Boundaries Established
1-15-1: WARD BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED:
The city is hereby divided into three (3) wards, with the following boundaries:
(1967 Code § 3.001)
FIRST WARD: All that territory within the corporate limits of the City east of
the extreme west side of Washington Street, and south of Morgan Street, except
block twenty four (24), shall constitute the First Ward, and the boundary of
said Ward shall commence at the northeast corner of block fourteen (14), and
thence south on the extreme west side of Washington Street on a line to the
extreme southern limits of the City; thence east of the extreme easterly limits
of the City; thence north until the north line of Morgan Street is reached;
thence west on the center line of Morgan Street to the center line of Lafayette
Street; thence south on the center line of Lafayette Street to the south side
of Jefferson Street; thence west to the northeast corner of block fourteen (14)
to the place of beginning.
(1967 Code § 3.002)
SECOND WARD: All that territory in the City north of Morgan Street, together
with block twenty four (24), shall constitute the Second Ward. The boundary of
said Ward shall be as follows: Beginning at the northeast corner of the
corporate limits of the City and running thence south on the corporate limit
line to the center line of Morgan Street, and west to the center line of
Lafayette Street; thence south on the center line of Lafayette Street to the
south side of Jefferson Street; thence west to the west side of Washington
Street; thence north to the center line of Morgan Street; thence west to the
extreme west limits of the City; thence north on the west line of the corporate
limits to the extreme north line of the corporate limits; thence east to the
point of beginning.
(1967 Code § 3.003)
THIRD WARD: All that territory in the City west of the west side of Washington
Street and south of Morgan Street shall constitute the Third Ward. The boundary
of said Ward shall be as follows: Beginning at the center line of Morgan Street
and running thence south on the west side of Washington Street on a line to the
extreme southerly corporate limits; thence west to the west corporate limits,
and thence north to the center line of Morgan Street; thence east to the place
of beginning.
(1967 Code § 3.004)
CHAPTER 16
CITY COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-16-1: Creation Of Office
1-16-2: Appointment
1-16-3: Duties
1-16-4: City Clerk As City Collector
1-16-5: Salary
1-16-6: Appropriation Of Funds
1-16-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of city collector. (Ord., 7-9-1985)
1-16-2: APPOINTMENT:
The city collector shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the consent of
the city council. (Ord., 7-9-1985)
1-16-3: DUTIES:
   A.   The city collector shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, all bills
for water and sewer service as provided by the city and shall collect all of
said water and sewer receipts and deposit the same in such depositories as may
be selected from time to time by the city council. (Ord., 7-9-1985)
   B.   The city collector shall also perform such other duties as may be
required by him/her by the mayor and city council, including keeping the city
hall open between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:
00) P.M., Monday through Friday. (Ord., 11-25-1997)
1-16-4: CITY CLERK AS CITY COLLECTOR:
The office of city collector may, at the discretion of the city council, be
held by the elected city clerk in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/3-11-28. (Ord., 7-9-1985)
1-16-5: SALARY:
The starting salary of the city collector shall be established by the mayor,
with the consent of the city council. When the office of city collector is held
by the city clerk in accordance with section
1-16-4 of this chapter, the compensation or salary for said positions shall be
fixed and determined by ordinance as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/3-13-11. (Ord., 7-9-1985; amd. 2010 Code)
1-16-6: APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS:
The monies for the office of city collector shall be provided in the annual
appropriation ordinance. (Ord., 7-9-1985)
CHAPTER 17
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-17-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-17-2: Duties
1-17-3: Salary
1-17-4: Absence
1-17-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Director of Public Works, an executive
office of the City. The Director of Public Works shall be appointed by the
Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council. (Ord., 8-27-
1985; amd. Ord. 20-2252020, 2-25-2020)
1-17-2: DUTIES:
   A.   The Director of Public Works shall have charge of the following City
departments: sewer department, street department and water department.  The
Director shall keep the property, equipment, and systems in these departments
in good repair.
   B.   The Director shall work with the Deputy Director of Public Works and
other public works employees to ensure timely completion of City projects.
   C.   The Director shall create and maintain an accurate mapping system of
the City which shows the location of all City utilities, property lines, and
legal mailing addresses.
   D.   The Director shall perform all City surveying, not requiring a
registered land surveyor, with equipment supplied by the City.
   E.   The Director shall be the liaison officer between consulting
engineering firms and the City Council.
   F.   The Director shall perform all miscellaneous drafting required by the
City Council.
   G.   The Director shall inspect or cause work to be inspected any project
which affects City owned utilities or property.
   H.   The Director shall pursue the availability of state or federal grants
which may become available to the City and shall prepare or cause to be
prepared the proper grant applications.
   I.   The Director shall perform his work subject to the orders of the Mayor
and City Council.
   J.   The Director shall have the authority to hire and discharge any member
of the department of public works with the consent of the Mayor and the City
Council
   K.   The Director shall have, or be in the process of obtaining, the
necessary and appropriate licenses with the State of Illinois, Environmental
Protection Agency, or otherwise, to allow the Director to operate fresh water
and waste-water systems in the City.  Such licenses and training shall be paid
for by the City. (Ord., 8-9-2011; amd. Ord. 20-2252020, 2-25-2020)
1-17-3: SALARY:
The salary of the Director of Public Works shall be established by the Mayor,
with the consent of the City Council. The Director shall work extra hours as
required by the workload and shall be compensated as an hourly employee. 
(Ord., 8-27-1985; amd. Ord. 20-2252020, 2-25-2020)
1-17-4: ABSENCE:
If the office of Director of Public Works is vacant, or he or she is unable to
perform his or her duties, the Deputy Director of Public Works shall perform
these duties on an interim basis.  To the extent necessary during such time as
when the office of Director of Public Works vacant, the Mayor, with the consent
of the City Council has the authority to appoint interim employees to perform
the administrative duties assigned to the Director of Public Works until such
vacancy is filled either permanently or by temporary appointment, or when the
Director of Public Works is able to continue his or her duties. (Ord., 7-14-
2015; amd. Ord. 20-2252020, 2-25-2020)
CHAPTER 18
CITY ARBORIST
SECTION:
1-18-1: Establishment
1-18-2: Duties
1-18-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
The position of the arborist is hereby established. The city arborist will be
an advisor to the city council. (Ord., 1-26-1993)
1-18-2: DUTIES:
The arborist shall perform the following duties: (Ord., 1-26-1993)
   A.   Forestry Plan: The arborist shall develop and, each subsequent year,
update the city forestry plan. (Ord., 1-26-1993; amd. Ord., 5-11-2004)
This plan shall outline forestry program activities for a minimum of the next
five (5) years.
The plan shall describe the forestry activities to be undertaken by the city,
the reasons for those activities, the possible funding sources, the means of
accomplishing the activities, the alternatives available to the city to fund
and accomplish the activity, the projected date of completion, and the
consequences if the activity is not completed. Activities may include, but are
not limited to, street tree inventory, planting, tree removal, beautification
projects and educational projects. (Ord., 1-26-1993)
   B.   Arbor Specifications Manual: The arborist shall develop and
periodically review and revise, as necessary, the "Arbor Specifications
Manual". This manual shall contain regulations and standards for the planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants upon city owned
property. (Ord., 1-26-1993; amd. Ord., 5-11-2004)
   C.   Publication Of Plan And Manual: The arborist shall cause the city
forestry plan and the "Arbor Specifications Manual", and all revisions and
amendments thereto, to be published. Three (3) copies of the manual, and all
revisions and amendments thereto, shall be made available for public inspection
at the office of the city clerk.
Notice that such information is available for public inspection shall be
published in a weekly newspaper of general circulation in Mt. Pulaski at least
once each week for four (4) consecutive weeks immediately following the initial
availability of the manual, or revisions or amendments thereto.
The "Arbor Specifications Manual", and any revisions and additions thereto,
shall become effective on the tenth day following the initial publication in a
newspaper of general circulation required under this subsection. (Ord., 1-26-
1993)
   D.   Information Available: The arborist shall make available to any
interested persons copies of the tree ordinance, copies of the "Arbor
Specifications Manual", and copies of the city forestry plan.
   E.   Administration: The arborist shall administer the city forestry plan,
the tree ordinance, and the provisions of the "Arbor Specifications Manual".
(Ord., 1-26-1993; amd. Ord., 5-11-2004)
   F.   Compliance: The arborist shall perform whatever acts are necessary,
including the planting and maintenance of trees and the removal of undesirable
trees, shrubs, and other plants located on city owned property, to ensure that
all trees, shrubs, and other plants located on city owned property conform with
the city forestry plan, the "Arbor Specifications Manual", and the tree
ordinance. (Ord., 1-26-1993)
CHAPTER 19
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 1
SECTION:
1-19-1: Short Title
1-19-2: Scope
1-19-3: Definitions
1-19-4: Notices
1-19-5: Late Payment
1-19-6: Payment
1-19-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-19-8: Audit Procedure
1-19-9: Appeal
1-19-10: Hearing
1-19-11: Interest And Penalties
1-19-12: Abatement
1-19-13: Installment Contracts
1-19-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-19-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-19-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-19-17: Internal Review Procedure
1-19-18: Application
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 7 of this code for various municipal taxes.
1-19-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 ".
CITY: The city of Mt. Pulaski, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city's mayor and city council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city clerk is charged with the administration and
collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this chapter
to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of the
state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code 2  or fees collected by the city.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord., 12-12-2000; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
2 1. 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.
1-19-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed (not less than 7 calendar days) prior to the day
fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local tax
administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date; or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum, based
on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days
elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund
check or the grant of a credit. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability, along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-19-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be ten
percent (10.0%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365)
days and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later. (Ord., 12-12-2000; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord., 12-12-2000; amd.
2010 Code)
1-19-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (Ord., 12-12-2000)
1-19-17: INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.,
12-12-2000)
1-19-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling.
(Ord., 12-12-2000)
CHAPTER 20
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-20-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-20-2: Definitions
1-20-3: Interpretation
1-20-4: Prohibited Acts
1-20-5: Penalties
1-20-6: Amendments
1-20-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-20-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 430/10-10 through
430/10-40 of the state officials and employees ethics act, referred to as the
"act" in this chapter, are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to
the officers and employees of the city to the extent required by 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (2010 Code)
1-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (2010 Code)
1-20-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (2010 Code)
1-20-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act by an officer or any employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the city under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the city is hereby
prohibited. (2010 Code)
1-20-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (2010 Code)
1-20-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city. (2010
Code)
1-20-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city. (2010
Code)
CHAPTER 21
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-21-1: Office Created
1-21-2: Duties
1-21-3: Compensation
1-21-4: Absence Of Director Of Public Works
1-21-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of Deputy Director of Public Works, who
shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City
Council , and upon recommendation by the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 20-
2252020, 2-25-2020)
1-21-2: DUTIES:
The Deputy Director shall perform his or her duties subject to the orders of
and under the supervision of the Director of Public Works and shall fulfill
such specific tasks as delegated to him or her by the Director of Public Works.
(ord. 20-2252020, 2-25-2020)
1-21-3: COMPENSATION:
The Deputy Director shall be compensated as an hourly employee. (Ord. 20-
2252020, 2-25-2020)
1-21-4: ABSENCE OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
If the office of Director of Public Works is vacant, or he or she is unable to
perform his or her duties, the Deputy Director of Public Works shall perform
these duties on an interim basis until such time as a replacement is made by
the Mayor.  (Ord. 20-2252020, 2-25-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation; Membership; Vacancies; Compensation
2-1-2: Jurisdiction
2-1-3: Meetings And Rules
2-1-4: Quorum
2-1-5: Decisions
2-1-6: Finality Of Decisions
2-1-7: Secretary Of Board
2-1-1: CREATION; MEMBERSHIP; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION:
A zoning board of appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The board
shall consist of a chair and six (6) members, and shall be appointed by the
mayor, with the consent of the city council. The board shall elect from its
members an acting chair to act whenever the chair is absent. When first
appointed, the members of the zoning board of appeals shall serve respectively
for the following terms: one for one year, one for two (2) years, one for three
(3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one for six (6)
years and one for seven (7) years, or until their respective successors have
been duly appointed and qualified. The successor to each member so appointed
shall serve for a term of five (5) years, or until his successor has been duly
appointed and qualified. Vacancies upon the board shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant, in the manner
herein provided for the appointment of such members. The city council may
provide by resolution for the compensation of the members of the board of
appeals. (Ord., 8-27-1974)
2-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The zoning board of appeals is hereby vested with the following jurisdiction
and authority and it shall be its duty:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals in which it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination (hereinafter
referred to collectively as "decision") made by the zoning administrator, in
the manner set forth in section
10-10-5 of this code.
   B.   To hear and decide on applications for variations from the regulations
and restrictions imposed by the zoning title in the manner and subject to the
standards set forth in title 10, chapter 11 of this code.
   C.   To hear and report to the corporate authorities on such other matters
as may be referred thereto by said corporate authorities, subject to the
provisions of the zoning title.
   D.   To hear and decide all other matters upon which it is authorized or
required to pass under the zoning title or the applicable Illinois statute.
(Ord., 8-27-1974)
2-1-3: MEETINGS AND RULES:
All meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at the call of the
chair and at such times as the board may determine. All hearings and meetings
required by the zoning title to be conducted by the board shall be open to the
public. At meetings and hearings of the board, any interested person may appear
in person or by duly authorized agents or attorneys. All testimony before the
board shall be given under oath. The chair, or in his absence the acting chair,
shall administer or authorize the administration of oaths and may compel the
attendance of witnesses. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating that fact. The board shall also keep records of its hearings
and other official actions. Each member is entitled to vote on each question
unless a member is absent or has disqualified himself. Every rule, regulation,
every amendment or appeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the board shall immediately be filed with the secretary of the
board and shall be a public record. The minutes of the board shall be available
for public examination in the office of the city clerk. (Ord., 8-27-1974; amd.
1977 Code)
2-1-4: QUORUM:
Four (4) members of the zoning board of appeals shall constitute a quorum. No
meeting or hearing shall be conducted by the board without a quorum being
present. (Ord., 8-27-1974)
2-1-5: DECISIONS:
The zoning board of appeals shall hear and decide all matters presented thereto
within a reasonable time. The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify or amend any order, requirement, decision or determination appealed
from to the extent and in the manner the board may decide to be fitting and
proper in the premises subject to the provisions contained in the zoning title
or in the applicable Illinois statutes. Any absent member of the board who
certifies that he has read the transcript of the proceedings before the board
may vote upon any question before the board. The concurring vote of four (4)
members of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the zoning administrator, to grant a variation
from the terms of the zoning title, or to decide in favor of any matter upon
which the board is required to pass under the zoning title or any other
ordinance. (Ord., 8-27-1974)
2-1-6: FINALITY OF DECISIONS:
All decisions of the zoning board of appeals, on appeal or upon application for
a variation to the zoning regulations, shall in all instances be final
administrative determinations and shall be subject to review by a court in the
manner provided by applicable Illinois statutes. (Ord., 8-27-1974)
2-1-7: SECRETARY OF BOARD:
   A.   Appointment: The secretary of the zoning board of appeals shall be
appointed by the board to serve until his successor is appointed.
   B.   Duties: The secretary of the board shall:
      1.   Record the minutes of the board's proceedings and actions, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact.
      2.   Act as custodian of the records of the board.
      3.   Furnish members of the public with such forms for appeals and
applications for variations as are approved by the board.
      4.   Receive on behalf of the board of appeals all such forms when
completed and executed by the appellant or applicant, or his agent or attorney.
      5.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by
the board. (Ord., 8-27-1974)
CHAPTER 2
ECONOMIC ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: Composition
2-2-4: Qualifications
2-2-5: Terms
2-2-6: Officers
2-2-7: Meetings
2-2-8: Powers And Duties
2-2-9: No Binding Authority
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to create the Mt. Pulaski Economic
Advisory Board, established to provide recommendations to the City Council with
respect to economic development in the City by:
      1.   Making recommendations on matters relating to the improvement of
sound economic growth and business development in the City.
      2.   Examining opportunities for fostering an attractive climate for
businesses within the City with respect to both existing and potential new
business establishments.
      3.   Recommending additional steps, measures, and specific projects to
promote economic growth by retaining current businesses and attracting new
commerce and industry.
      4.   Cooperating with City officials and staff to realize appropriate
goals and objectives relating to sound business practices and better employment
opportunities. (Ord. 6272017, 6-27-2017)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
AREA: The specific geographical area of the City as defined in the plan.
BOARD: The Mt. Pulaski Economic Advisory Board of the City.
CITY: The City of Mt. Pulaski, Logan County, Illinois.
COUNCIL: The City Council of Mt. Pulaski, Illinois.
MEMBERS: Voting members of the board.
PLAN: The Mt. Pulaski Business District Development and Redevelopment Plan as
outlined in ordinance 021420171. (Ord. 6272017, 6-27-2017)
2-2-3: COMPOSITION:
The board shall consist of five (5) members and an appointed City official to
serve as a non-voting member of the board. (Ord. 6272017, 6-27-2017)
2-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
Members of the board shall be appointed on the basis of expertise, interest, or
experience of economic development. Members shall be residents of the City or
the Mt. Pulaski Township. (Ord. 6272017, 6-27-2017)
2-2-5: TERMS:
The members of the board shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council for one year terms, which coincide with the fiscal
year. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members shall
serve without compensation. The initial appointment of three (3) members shall
be for a term of three (3) years and the initial appointment of two (2) members
shall be for a term of two (2) years. (Ord. 6272017, 6-27-2017)
2-2-6: OFFICERS:
Officers shall consist of a Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Treasurer, and a
Secretary. The Chairman shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the
Chairman, the Vice-Chairman shall perform the duties of the Chairman. (Ord.
6272017, 6-27-2017)
2-2-7: MEETINGS:
A quorum of the board shall consist of a majority of the members. All decisions
or actions of the board shall be made by a majority vote of the members present
and voting at any meeting where a quorum exists. The Chairman shall be a voting
member. Meetings shall be held at regular scheduled times to be established by
the resolution of the board at the beginning of each fiscal year or at any time
upon call of the Chairman. There shall be a minimum of four (4) meetings per
year. No member of the board shall vote on any matter that may materially or
apparently affect the property, income, or business interest of that member.
All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed with the City Clerk and shall be a public record. (Ord.
6272017, 6-27-2017)
2-2-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The board shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To adopt its own procedural regulations.
      2.   To conduct ongoing surveys, at the direction of the City Council, to
identify areas and enterprises in the City that could benefit from economic
development.
      3.   To investigate and recommend to the City economic development
projects.
      4.   To administer, on behalf of the City, any property or full or
partial interest in real property, which the City may have or accept as a gift
or otherwise, upon designation by the City Council. The City may choose
however, at the discretion of the City Council, to appoint another entity to
administer such a property.
      5.   To accept and administer on behalf of the City, upon designation of
the City Council, such gifts, grants and monies as may be appropriate for the
purpose of this chapter, and in accordance with City Development and
Redevelopment Plan.
      6.   To call upon available City staff members as well as other experts
for technical advice.
      7.   To testify before all boards and commissions of the City, if needed,
on matters regarding economic development.
      8.   To periodically review this Code and recommend to the City Council
any amendments the board believes are appropriate for the furtherance of
economic development.
      9.   To review any applications they deem necessary to allow financial
assistance to further the plan, and recommend appropriate amounts and ways of
assistance for the City Council's approval or denial thereof. (Ord. 6272017, 6-
27-2017)
2-2-9: NO BINDING AUTHORITY:
The Economic Advisory Board shall have no authority to bind the City of Mt.
Pulaski or the City Council of the City of Mt. Pulaski to any contract of any
kind that results in a financial liability or lien against the City, without
the express prior approval of the City Council. The Economic Advisory Board is
strictly a commission of appointments made by the City and shall make
recommendations to the City Council for the approval or denial of the same by a
vote of the City Council. (Ord. 6272017, 6-27-2017)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LICENSES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: License Year
3-1-6: Building And Premises
3-1-7: Changes Of Location
3-1-8: Nuisances
3-1-9: Inspections And Analyses
3-1-10: Revocation
3-1-11: Termination Of Licenses
3-1-12: Investigations
3-1-13: Fees
3-1-14: Posting License Or Permit
3-1-15: Penalty
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made
in writing to the city clerk in the absence of provision to the contrary. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of the city officials in the issuing of the
permit or license for which applied. (1967 Code § 19.001)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the city. (1967 Code § 19.002)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared by and kept on file with the city clerk. (1967 Code § 19.003)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the mayor and the
city clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (1967 Code §
19.004)
3-1-5: LICENSE YEAR:
The license year for the city shall begin on June 1 and end on May 31 of each
year, unless otherwise specifically provided. (1967 Code § 19.005; amd. 2010
Code)
The city clerk shall mail to all licensees of the city a statement of the time
of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an annual one, three (3)
weeks prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, that a failure to send
out such notice, or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse
the licensee from a failure to obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof, nor
shall it be a defense in an action for operating without a license. (1967 Code
§ 19.005)
3-1-6: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act, if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the ordinance requirements of the city. No
such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the zoning title of
this code. (1967 Code § 19.006)
3-1-7: CHANGES OF LOCATION:
The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act,
may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the city
clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided, that there is
compliance with the building and zoning requirements of this code. (1967 Code §
19.007)
3-1-8: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1967 Code § 19.008)
3-1-9: INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES:
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to
secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the city whose business is
governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the
city requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for
such analysis upon request.
In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the mayor may revoke
the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the city who
refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to make such
inspection or take such samples to make the inspection or take an adequate
sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee
while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection. Provided, that
no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon
the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the city,
stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to
make the inspection or obtain the sample. (1967 Code § 19.009)
3-1-10: REVOCATION:
Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the mayor at any
time during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the ordinance provisions relating to the license or
permit, the subject matter of the license or permit, or to the premises
occupied; such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. (1967 Code §
19.010)
3-1-11: TERMINATION OF LICENSES:
All annual licenses shall terminate on May 31 where no provision to the
contrary is made. (1967 Code § 19.011; amd. 1977 Code; 2010 Code)
3-1-12: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where ordinances of
the city necessitate inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the city clerk shall refer such application to the officer
for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such
receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10)
days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. The county health
officer shall make or cause to be made any inspection in regard to such
licenses involving the care and handling of food and the preventing of
nuisances and the spread of disease, for the protection of health. The building
inspector shall make or cause to be made any such inspections relative to the
construction of buildings or other structures. All other investigations, except
where otherwise provided, shall be made by the chief of police or by some other
officer designated by the city council. (1967 Code § 19.012; amd. 2010 Code)
3-1-13: FEES:
In the absence of provisions to the contrary, all fees and charges for licenses
or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor is made to
the city clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the business until after
the expiration of part of the current license year, the license fee shall be
prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business has been or will be conducted. Except as otherwise
provided, all license fees shall become a part of the corporate fund. (1967
Code § 19.013)
3-1-14: POSTING LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   License: It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed
business in the city to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent
place on the premises used for such business. (1967 Code § 19.014)
   B.   Permit: It shall be the duty of any permittee in the city to keep the
permit upon his person or at the appropriate site at all times. (2010 Code)
3-1-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License And Compliance Required
3-2-3: Application For License; Investigation
3-2-4: License Fee
3-2-5: Liability Insurance
3-2-6: Term Of License; Nontransferability
3-2-7: License And Capacity To Be Posted
3-2-8: Persons On Duty
3-2-9: Conduct Of Business
3-2-10: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-2-11: Requirements For Specific Amusement Establishments
3-2-12: Additional Requirements
3-2-13: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
BILLIARD CENTER: A place of amusement or entertainment in which one or more
persons are invited to play and participate in the game of billiards, including
pocket table billiards or snooker table billiards, or wherein one or more pool
tables or billiard tables are kept, used or operated for profit or in the
course of a business enterprise.
BOWLING ALLEY: A place of amusement or entertainment in which one or more
persons are invited to play and participate in the game of bowling or wherein
one or more bowling lanes are used or operated for profit or in the course of a
business enterprise.
GAME ROOM: A place of amusement or entertainment in which three (3) or more
mechanical amusement devices are kept or maintained for the use of the public,
operated for a profit or in the course of a business enterprise.
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any musical device, pinball machine, novelty
machine, skill machine, pool machine, bowling machine or similar machine which
operates or may be operated for use as a game of skill, amusement or play and
for which a charge is made, whether coin operated, token operated, ticket
operated, time operated, operated by control of an operator or operated as an
enticement for the business enterprise.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm or corporation who keeps or allows billiard or pool
tables to be kept on premises owned by him or under his control where the same
may be played by members of the public legally upon such premises upon payment
of the charge therefor.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation who owns and places billiard or pool
tables by whatever arrangements on the operator's premises.
PUBLIC SKATING RINK: Any room, place or space in which skating, either on
roller skates or ice skates, is carried on and to which admission can be had by
the public by payment, either directly or indirectly, of a fee, or by payment
of a charge for any service auxiliary to skating, or by purchase, possession or
presentation of a ticket or token; but the term "skating" shall not be held to
apply to exhibitions or performances in which the persons paying for admission
do not participate.
THEATER: Any room, place or space for the showing of motion pictures, plays,
musicals, concerts or other entertainments to which admission can be had by the
public by payment, either directly or indirectly, of an admission price. (2010
Code)
3-2-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the following acts in the
city without having first obtained an amusement license:
      1.   Operate a theater.
      2.   Operate a billiard center.
      3.   Operate a bowling alley.
      4.   Own, operate, maintain, sell or keep for operation a mechanical
amusement device.
      5.   Conduct or operate a public skating rink.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: The licensee, agent or employee shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter. (2010 Code)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   All applications for an amusement license shall conform to the
following requirements:
      1.   Be made in writing to the city clerk, verified by the applicant and
accompanied by the license fee required.
      2.   State the name, age and address of the applicant and, if the
applicant is a corporation, the name of its officers and directors.
      3.   State the location of the place where the amusement device or
facility is to be located and operated.
      4.   State the number of amusement devices, alleys, tables, greens,
screens, etc., as may be applicable to the particular business to be conducted.
      5.   Include a detailed scale layout of the operation, showing the
location of the greens, tables, alleys, screens, lighting, fences, buildings,
structures and other equipment.
      6.   State the name(s) of the manager(s) hired to supervise the
particular operation.
      7.   Include such other and further information as may be required by the
city clerk.
   B.   The application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made
upon forms furnished by the city clerk and shall include the date and place of
conviction of any person named therein for any crime other than minor traffic
violations committed during the period of ten (10) years prior to the date of
application, including a statement of the crime of which such person was
convicted.
   C.   The chief of police shall investigate any and all applications for a
license and shall submit a report to the city. (2010 Code)
3-2-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Fee Established; Exemptions: The annual fee for an amusement license
shall be ten dollars ($10.00). The fee provided for in this section may be
waived upon application to the council in the case of limited performances or
engagements by a nonprofit organization.
   B.   Fee Not Transferable Or Prorated: The fee provided for herein is not
transferable, nor may it be prorated; except, that the fee for theaters,
billiard tables and amusement devices shall be paid for the number of screens,
tables or machines available for use, and the licenses are valid for different
tables or machines as may be replaced or changed from time to time during the
year; provided, that the license fee is paid for the maximum number of machines
or tables used on the applicant's premises at any one time. (2010 Code)
3-2-5: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Each licensee shall keep in force liability insurance of a minimum of seven
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00) combined single limit liability
coverage for injury to or death of any one person or persons or damages/
destruction of property in any one accident by a corporation or corporations
authorized to write insurance in the state during the license year. It shall
appear on such policy that the city shall be notified, in writing, at least
thirty (30) days prior to the cancellation of such policy of insurance. (2010
Code)
3-2-6: TERM OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Each license shall expire on May 31 next after its issuance and shall not be
transferable from one person to another. (2010 Code)
3-2-7: LICENSE AND CAPACITY TO BE POSTED:
Every entertainment license shall be conspicuously posted about the place for
which the license is issued and shall be exhibited to any person upon request.
All amusement facilities shall have posted the capacity limitation for the
premises in a conspicuous place. (2010 Code)
3-2-8: PERSONS ON DUTY:
There shall be on duty at all times that the operation of a billiard center,
bowling alley, mechanical or electronic amusement device, public skating rink,
theater or game room is open to the public an adult operator or manager who
understands the operation of all equipment used on the premises. It shall be
the duty of the licensee and his manager to remain on the premises at all times
and enforce the provisions of subsection
3-2-9A of this chapter. (2010 Code)
3-2-9: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Code Of Conduct:
      1.   The licensee, under this chapter, shall follow and enforce the
following code of conduct for the licensed premises:
         a.   Truants from school shall not be permitted to enter or remain on
the premises.
         b.   No person violating any curfew law or ordinance shall be
permitted to enter or remain on the licensed premises.
         c.   No person soliciting to vice or any other unlawful purpose shall
be permitted to enter or remain on the licensed premises.
         d.   No person selling, transferring, giving, using or in possession
of any "controlled substance", as defined by Illinois Compiled Statutes, shall
be permitted to enter or remain on the premises or remain in the area directly
adjacent to the premises.
         e.   No person shall be permitted to harass, threaten or annoy any
persons.
         f.   No person shall loiter inside or outside a billiard center.
Persons not engaging in billiard or pool play or waiting their turn to play
shall be prohibited from the billiard center except in cases of an owner
sanctioned tournament or contest. Persons shall be prohibited from loitering on
the property outside the billiard center, including the parking lot.
      2.   The licensee under this chapter shall post in plain view a copy of
the above rules of conduct as well as a copy of the house rules and hours of
operation in a minimum of one inch (1") letters.
   B.   Maintenance Of Order: It shall be the responsibility of the licensee
under this chapter to maintain order on the licensed premises at all times.
(2010 Code)
3-2-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Alcoholic Beverages On Licensed Premises: No person shall, in any
licensed premises or in any anteroom, corridor, cloakroom, hallway or dressing
room thereof or in any room connecting therewith, drink any alcoholic
beverages; nor shall any licensee hereunder suffer or permit any person to
drink any alcoholic beverages in or on any licensed premises over which such
licensee has control.
   B.   Gambling In Billiard Centers:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any licensed
billiard center to permit the same to be used for gambling or for the making of
bets or wagers.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the licensee or the owner or operator of a
billiard center to give any money, token, merchandise or any other thing of
value or any reward or prize in lieu of free games.
      3.   No person shall keep, maintain, sell or permit to be operated in his
billiard center any billiard table, pool table or other equipment which has
been converted into an automatic payoff device which shall discharge coins,
checks or other tokens to the operator or player of such table or equipment. No
person shall convert any billiard table, pool table or other equipment into an
automatic payoff device.
      4.   Any billiard or pool table which has been utilized in violation of
this subsection may be seized and destroyed in compliance with the provisions
of the state statutes relating to gambling devices. (2010 Code)
3-2-11: REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Skating Rinks, Billiard Centers, Bowling Alleys And Amusement Centers:
      1.   Lighting: Every skating rink, billiard center, bowling alley and
place having mechanical amusement devices shall be illuminated while in public
use, and operation thereof while the lights are extinguished or turned so low
as to not give proper vision is hereby prohibited.
      2.   Open View: The operation of a skating rink, billiard center, bowling
alley and premises having mechanical amusement devices shall at all times be
conducted in open view of the public. Such amusements shall not be enclosed
from the public in private rooms.
      3.   Hours Of Operation For Billiard Centers; Minors:
         a.   A billiard center shall be closed by one o'clock (1:00) A.M. each
night and may not be open until nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on weekdays and
Saturdays or until twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sundays.
         b.   No one under the age of sixteen (16) shall be permitted on the
premises of a billiard center after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. except when
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian; no one under the age of eighteen
(18) shall be permitted on the premises of a billiard center after ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. except when accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   B.   Theaters:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to show or exhibit in a public
place or in a place to which the public is admitted any motion picture, whether
an admission is charged or not, without exhibiting a classification notice
therefor as provided in this subsection. The classification notice required in
this subsection shall designate the rating applied to the motion picture to be
exhibited. Such classification notice shall contain one of the ratings used by
the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to show or exhibit or cause to
be shown or exhibited to any person under the age of seventeen (17) any picture
designated R unless accompanied by a parent or adult guardian. It shall be
unlawful for any person to show or exhibit or cause to be shown or exhibited to
any person under the age of seventeen (17) any picture designated X.
      3.   Any person who admits a person not qualified to view a motion
picture under the provisions of this subsection to a performance of a picture
designated R or X shall be presumed to have violated the provisions of this
subsection. Such prima facie case of violation may be rebutted by a showing
that the motion picture in question has been improperly classified.
      4.   The rating provided by this subsection shall be that imposed upon
such motion picture by the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc., if the
motion picture has been classified by that organization. In the event no
classification has been imposed by such motion picture organization, the person
or organization showing or exhibiting such motion picture shall be responsible
for designating the classification in accordance with standards prescribed by
the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc., and shall restrict admission
to persons under the age of seventeen (17) in accordance with the standards set
forth in the ratings as provided in this subsection.
      5.   The notice of classification provided for in this subsection shall
be posted at or near the entrance of the theater, hall, room or place where any
motion picture is being exhibited, at such a place and in such a position that
it may easily be read by any person entering such theater, hall, room or place,
at any time when any such motion picture is being exhibited. Film ratings shall
be included in all advertising.
      6.   When motion pictures having a different rating are being shown
together as double or triple features, they shall all be assigned the rating of
the picture carrying the most restrictive rating.
      7.   No licensee shall display on the exterior of an indoor theater or
show or exhibit at any drive-in theater in such a manner that passersby view or
are likely to view any picture, photograph, drawing or similar visual
representation or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts
sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic abuse. (2010 Code)
3-2-12: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The city may impose other reasonable restrictions or conditions as it deems
necessary to provide for public health, safety, and welfare. (2010 Code)
3-2-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
All licenses granted hereunder shall be revocable for cause at any time. Said
licenses may be suspended for such period as the city council may prescribe or
may be revoked by the council, and such revocation or suspension shall be made
on reasonable hearing prescribed by the council. "Cause" shall include any
violation of this chapter. If there shall be two (2) convictions for violations
of this chapter, whether such violations are the same or different provisions
of this chapter, the second such conviction shall be cause for revocation of
the license after hearing prescribed by the council. No refund fee shall be
paid on revocation. (2010 Code)
ARTICLE A.  LIVE MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definition
3-2A-2: License Required
3-2A-3: License Fees
3-2A-4: Prohibited Hours
3-2A-5: Nuisance Conditions Prohibited
3-2A-6: Revocation Of License
3-2A-7: Penalties
3-2A-1: DEFINITION:
The term "live musical entertainment" is defined to be all forms of musical
entertainment provided by live individuals or groups of musicians, as
distinguished from mechanical musical devices, for dancing, listening or
concert purposes. (Ord., 6-28-1983)
3-2A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit live entertainment upon his
premises without first having obtained a license therefor, and such license and
the application therefor shall be as set forth in chapter 6 of this title.
(Ord., 6-28-1983)
3-2A-3: LICENSE FEES:
The fee for such license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each day of such
license or a yearly fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord., 6-28-1983)
3-2A-4: PROHIBITED HOURS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to permit live entertainment between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord., 6-28-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  6-2-11D of this code.
3-2A-5: NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to permit live entertainment in the city in a manner which
interferes with the health, peace and comfort of any person in the neighborhood
thereof. Such use is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord., 6-28-1983)
3-2A-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the mayor or by the council
whenever, in the judgment of either, the public welfare requires such
revocation. The acceptance of any license under this article shall constitute
an agreement between the parties to such license, even though the license
itself does not state such fact, that the same may be revoked. (Ord., 6-28-
1983)
3-2A-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall be subject to
penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and the license herein provided for may be
revoked by the mayor. (Ord., 6-28-1983)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: License Restrictions
3-3-5: Term; Prorating Fee
3-3-6: Examination Of Applicant
3-3-7: License Classifications And Fees
3-3-8: Number Of Licenses
3-3-9: Disposition Of Fees
3-3-10: Renewal Of License
3-3-11: Entry Powers
3-3-12: Record Kept
3-3-13: Transfer Of License
3-3-14: Change Of Location
3-3-15: Peddling
3-3-16: Sanitary Conditions
3-3-17: Employees
3-3-18: Location Restrictions
3-3-19: Access From Licensed Premises To Dwelling Quarters
3-3-20: Persons Under Twenty One
3-3-21: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
3-3-22: Sale Of Food On Sundays
3-3-23: Additional Hours Of Operation
3-3-24: Revocation, Suspension Of License
3-3-25: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given in this section:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. The term does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, containing
over one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume, and capable of being
consumed as a beverage by a human being.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of the state, and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor, which conforms to the definition of a
"club" in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3.24.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where meals are actually and regularly
served and consumed and where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which
twenty five (25) or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such
guests and having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to
such guests, such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in
the same building or buildings, in connection therewith, and such building or
buildings, structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary
dining room and kitchen equipment and capacity.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm or corporation or partnership or club holding a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public to be a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations; such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages,
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as defined in this
section. (1967 Code § 22.001; amd. Ord., 2-26-1974; 2010 Code)
3-3-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The mayor is hereby authorized to be the local liquor control commissioner and
shall be charged with the administration of the liquor control act, 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes, and of such ordinances and resolutions relating to
alcoholic liquor as may be needed. The mayor may appoint a person or persons to
assist him in the exercise of the powers and performance of the duties provided
for such local liquor control commissioner. (1967 Code § 22.002)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses shall be made to the local liquor control
commissioner. Such applications shall be made in writing and shall be signed by
the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a
club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the
following information and statements:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority of the stock of such
corporation, in interest, is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and
address of such person.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   C.   The character of the business of the applicant; and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   D.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character; or in the case of the corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
   G.   A statement as to whether the applicant has made a similar application
for a similar license on premises other than described in this application, and
the disposition of such application.
   H.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of the state or ordinances of the city.
   I.   Whether a previous license by a state or subdivision thereof, or by the
federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor.
   J.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state of Illinois or the United States in the conduct of his place of business.
(1967 Code § 22.003)
3-3-4: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of Logan County or a person who is not a
resident of a county with a border touching Logan County. (Ord., 5-14-2013)
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is the keeper
of a house of ill fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, unless all the members of such copartnership shall be
qualified to receive a license. (1967 Code § 22.004)
   J.   A corporation or limited liability corporation, if any officer,
manager, member or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning
in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation,
would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the city. (1967 Code § 22.004; amd. 2010 Code)
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   L.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued.
   M.   Any law enforcing public official, mayor, or any member of the city
council, and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly
or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   N.   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license. (1967 Code § 22.004)
3-3-5: TERM; PRORATING FEE:
Each such license shall terminate on June 30 next following its issuance. The
fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which
have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the license. (1967 Code §
22.005)
3-3-6: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the right to examine, or cause
to be examined, under oath, any application for a local license or for a
renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to be examined
the books and records of any such applicant or licensee, to hear testimony and
take proof for his information in the performance of his duties, and for such
purpose, to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the local liquor
control commissioner under this section, he may authorize his agent to act on
his behalf, as provided by statute. (1967 Code § 22.006)
3-3-7: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES:
The licenses issued by authority of this chapter shall be divided into the
following classes: (Ord., 11-1975; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Class A Tavern License: A class A license shall authorize the retail
sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on or off the premises. It shall be
unlawful to keep open or permit to be open any place where alcoholic liquor is
sold for consumption on the premises between the hours of one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Sunday through Saturday; and from six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Sunday through eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. Sunday; and from one
minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. Monday through one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
Monday. Alcoholic beverages shall not be consumed on the premises during
prohibited hours. The annual fee for such license shall be nine hundred dollars
($900.00) and shall be paid semiannually on June 30 and December 31 of each
year. (Ord., 12-10-2013)
   B.   Class B Tavern License: A class B license shall authorize the retail
sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on or off the premises. It shall be
unlawful to keep open or permit to be open any place where alcoholic liquor is
sold for consumption on the premises between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M., Monday through Friday, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day;
and from eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on Saturday until six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on the following Monday. Alcoholic beverages shall not be consumed
on the premises during prohibited hours. The annual fee for such license shall
be seven hundred dollars ($700.00) and shall be paid semiannually on June 30
and December 31 of each year. (Ord., 11-1975; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Class D Package License: A class D license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic beverages in the original unopened containers at retail, not to be
consumed on the premises sold; provided, that no such original package
containing less than one-half (1/2) pint shall be permitted to be sold. It
shall be unlawful for the holder of a class D license to sell or offer for sale
at retail any alcoholic liquor between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Sunday through Saturday, and from twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on Saturday until eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on
Sunday. The annual fee for such license shall be seven hundred dollars
($700.00) and shall be paid semiannually on June 30 and December 31 of each
year. (Ord., 10-8-2013)
   D.   Class E Club License: A class E club license shall authorize the retail
sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises of said club; such
sales to occur during social events sponsored by said club or events resulting
from the leasing of these facilities to other individuals or organizations;
provided, however, that no alcoholic beverages shall be sold or consumed at any
such event on Sundays. Each such event shall be approved in advance by the
liquor commissioner. It shall be unlawful to keep open or permit to be open any
club where alcoholic liquor is sold for consumption on the premises between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, Monday through Friday, and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day; and from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on Saturday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following Monday. Alcoholic
beverages shall not be consumed on the premises during prohibited hours. The
annual fee for such license shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) and shall be
paid semiannually on June 30 and December 31 of each year. All other liquor
regulations provided in this chapter shall apply to a club license. (Ord., 6-
26-1984; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Class F Restaurant License: A class F license shall authorize the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises. Alcoholic
beverages shall be offered for sale only when meals from the restaurant's
kitchen are available to the restaurant's patrons. It shall be unlawful to keep
open or permit to be open any place where alcoholic liquor is sold for
consumption on the premises between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day; and from
eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on Saturday until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on the following Monday. The annual fee for each license shall be seven
hundred dollars ($700.00) and shall be paid semiannually on June 30 and
December 31 of each year. (Ord., 7-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
3-3-8: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
 
Class Of License Number Of Licenses
A tavern         3
B tavern         3
D package        3
E club           1
F restaurant     1
 
Any combination of the above maximum limits may be issued by the liquor control
commissioner; provided, however, that the sum of class A and class B licenses
shall not exceed four (4) and the total number shall not exceed seven (7).
(Ord., 2-27-2001; amd. 2010 Code; Ord., 5-14-2013; Res. 9222020, 9-22-2020)
3-3-9: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All license fees shall be paid to the city clerk at the time application is
made and shall be forthwith turned over to the city treasurer. In the event the
license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if
the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the general
corporate fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the mayor
and city council for proper action. (1967 Code § 22.009)
3-3-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, that he
is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought is suitable for the purpose; provided further, that the
renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the mayor from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued within his jurisdiction. (1967 Code § 22.010)
3-3-11: ENTRY POWERS:
The local liquor control commissioner is hereby given the power to enter or to
authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any premises
licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of the liquor
control act, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, or any rules or regulations
adopted by him or by the state liquor commission have been or are being
violated, and at such time to examine the premises of said licensee in
connection therewith. (1967 Code § 22.012)
3-3-12: RECORD KEPT:
The local liquor control commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all such licenses issued by him. (1967 Code § 22.014)
3-3-13: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as is in this chapter provided, and shall
not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution. It shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such
license, but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the
license fee paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1967 Code § 22.015; amd. 2010 Code)
3-3-14: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in the
premises described in the application and license. Such location may be changed
only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the mayor. No change
of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one
for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the statutes of the state and the
ordinances of the city. (1967 Code § 22.016)
3-3-15: PEDDLING:
It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city. (1967 Code §
22.017)
3-3-16: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
All premises used for the sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the storage of such
liquor for sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall be
kept in full compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition of
premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption. (1967 Code
§ 22.018)
3-3-17: EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to employ in any premises used for the sale
of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious or infectious disease, and it shall be unlawful for any person
afflicted with or who is a carrier of any such disease to work in or about any
such premises or to engage in work in or about any such premises or to engage
in any way in the handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor. (1967
Code § 22.019; amd. 2010 Code)
3-3-18: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for
the aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their wives or children, or any
military or naval hospital; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to
clubs, restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business not
exempted shall have been established for such purpose prior to the effective
date hereof; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor
on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church where such church has
been established within such one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the
original license. (1967 Code § 22.020)
   B.   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors. (1967 Code § 22.021)
3-3-19: ACCESS FROM LICENSED PREMISES TO DWELLING QUARTERS:
Except in the case of wineries that have bed and breakfast facilities, hotels
and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail upon any premises which
has any access which leads from such premises to any other portion of the same
building or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and which is
permitted to be used or kept accessible for any use by the public. This section
shall not prevent any connection between such premises and such other portion
of the building or structure which is used only by the licensee, his family and
personal guests. (1967 Code § 22.022; amd. 2010 Code)
3-3-20: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Identification; Purchasing For Persons Under Twenty One Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to misrepresent his age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor while under the age of
twenty one (21) years in any tavern or other place in the city where alcoholic
liquor is sold. (Ord., 12-27-1979, eff. 1-1-1980; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who presents or
offers to any licensee, his agent or employee, any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent or not
actually his own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to
purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure the serving of any
alcoholic beverage, or who has in his possession any false or fraudulent
written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity, is guilty of a
violation of this subsection. (Ord., 12-27-1979, eff. 1-1-1980; amd. Ord., 1-
11-2000)
      3.   In every tavern or other place in the city where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card
which shall be supplied by the clerk and which shall read substantially as
follows:
   WARNING
You are subject to a fine up to $750.00 under the provisions of the Mt. Pulaski
City Code if you purchase alcoholic liquor while under the age of 21 years or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to
another person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service. (Ord., 12-27-1979, eff. 1-1-
1980; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Purchase, Possession, Consumption:
      1.   Consumption And Possession:
         a.   Purchase And Delivery: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
years shall purchase, accept delivery of or have possession of alcoholic
liquor. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of
twenty one (21) is also forbidden.
         b.   Penalty: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who
violates this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a minimum
fine of four hundred dollars ($400.00), then up to seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each and every violation thereafter.
         c.   Hardship: Upon showing hardship in paying the fine set by the
court, the court may, in lieu thereof, order an appropriate amount of public
service. (Ord., 1-11-2000)
      2.   Proof Of Age:
         a.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of
the nonage of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or
delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, as hereinafter set forth in this subsection B2.
         b.   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee, or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and of the fact that he is under the age of twenty one (21) years.
         c.   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a federal, state, county or principal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the federal
selective service act, or an identification card issued to a member of the
armed forces. Proof that the defendant/licensee, or his employee or agent,
demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
         d.   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years any false or fraudulent written, printed or
photostatic evidence of the age and identity of such person or who sells, gives
or furnishes to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years evidence of
age and identification of any other person is guilty of a violation of this
subsection.
         e.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface any identification card
as herein provided; use the identification card of another; give or use a false
or forged identification card or obtain an identification card by means of
false information. (Ord., 12-27-1979, eff. 1-1-1980; amd. Ord., 1-11-2000)
   C.   Employment Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the holder of a class
A, B, E or F alcoholic liquor dealer's license to employ or permit any person
in his business establishment who is under eighteen (18) years of age from at
any time attending any bar and from drawing, pouring or mixing any alcoholic
liquor in any such licensed retail premises, pursuant to 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/4-1. (Ord., 7-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Revocation Or Suspension Of License: In addition to all other fines and
penalties, the mayor may revoke or suspend the retail liquor dealer's license
for any violation of this section. (Ord., 12-27-1979, eff. 1-1-1980; amd. Ord.,
1-11-2000)
3-3-21: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the holder of an alcoholic liquor dealer's license to
sell, deliver or give any alcoholic liquor to any person who is not twenty one
(21) years of age or to any intoxicated person, except as provided in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (1967 Code § 22.026; amd. 2010 Code)
3-3-22: SALE OF FOOD ON SUNDAYS:
Sale of food on Sunday outside of the permissible hours of operation of a class
A or B liquor license can be done with the application and approval of a permit
by the city. The city will require alcohol serving areas to be closed, covered
and proper signage posted prohibiting the sale of alcohol on Sunday. (2010
Code)
3-3-23: ADDITIONAL HOURS OF OPERATION:
Additional hours of operation can be bought by the hour, at a rate of ten
dollars ($10.00) per hour, with a maximum of eight (8) hours per six (6) month
period. (This would cover requests for Super Bowl Sunday, New Year's Eve and
fall festival extended hours.) (2010 Code)
3-3-24: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The mayor may suspend for not more than thirty (30) days 1  or revoke for cause
any liquor dealer's license for any violation of any provision pertaining to
the sale of alcoholic liquor, as provided and in the manner provided in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-5. (1967 Code § 22.027)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-4.
3-3-25: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Mobile Home Park License
3-4-3: Location Outside Mobile Home Parks
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, unless a different meaning appears from the
context, the following terms shall have the meanings herein prescribed:
CAMPER OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle or structure designed and constructed in
such manner as will permit temporary occupancy as living and sleeping quarters
as is primarily required during camping or vacation travels or similar
seasonable use. Such facility has substantially identical characteristics as a
mobile home in that it can be conveyed or towed on the streets; however, in no
way is it intended to become a residence within the city.
MOBILE HOME: A structure designed to be used for human habitation, carrying or
storing persons or property, being able to be easily equipped with wheels or
other devices to be transported from place to place. A structure or unit shall
be considered a "mobile home" even though it may be designated a modular home
or other than a "mobile home" and even though it may be placed on a permanent
foundation, be conveyed by truck, rail or air transport, or have its
undercarriage, tongue and wheels removed.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An "approved mobile home park" means an area of land or lands
upon which two (2) or more independent mobile homes are harbored, either free
of charge or for revenue, and the owner or operator at all times maintains a
current and valid mobile home park license issued by the Illinois department of
public health and the city of Mt. Pulaski. (1977 Code)
3-4-2: MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain
upon any property owned or controlled by him, a mobile home park within the
city limits without having first secured a license therefor from the city,
granted and existing in compliance with the terms of this chapter. Such license
shall expire one year from the date of issuance but may be renewed under the
provisions of this chapter for additional periods of one year.
   B.   The application for such license or the renewal thereof shall be filed
with the city clerk, and there shall be no fee charged for this license. The
application for license or a renewal thereof shall be made on printed forms
furnished by the city clerk. The application shall be accompanied by four (4)
copies of the mobile home park plan showing the following, either existing or
as proposed:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description of the park.
      3.   Roadways and driveways.
      4.   Location of sites or units for trailer coaches.
      5.   Method and plan of garbage removal.
      6.   Method and plan of sewage disposal.
      7.   Plan for water supply.
      8.   Plan for electrical lighting of units.
      9.   Plan showing the park and recreation area.
      10.   Such further information as may be requested by the city council to
enable them to determine if the proposed park will comply with legal
requirements.
   C.   Before such license may be issued, there must be a favorable
recommendation by a majority of the city council, as complying with all the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable provisions of this code,
whereupon it will be up to the council's direction as to issuance.
      1.   No such license shall be issued to anyone but a person of good
character, nor to any corporation if any officer thereof is not a person of
good character.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to hire or keep as manager, superintendent or
person in charge of a mobile home park, any person who is not a person of good
character or any person who has been convicted of a felony.
   D.   The mobile home park shall, under no circumstances, hinder or offend
existing property or property owners, or hinder drainage or sanitation or
scenic view of property owners.
   E.   The park shall be located on a well drained site, properly graded to
ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
   F.   Each mobile home shall be allotted a site of not less than two thousand
one hundred (2,100) square feet. No mobile home shall be parked closer than
five feet (5') to the said road lines of a mobile home park or closer than ten
feet (10') to a public street, alley or building. Each individual trailer site
shall abut or face on a driveway or roadway of not less than twenty four feet
(24') in width, which driveway or roadway shall have unobstructed access to a
public highway or alley. There shall be an open space of at least ten feet
(10') adjacent to the sides of every mobile home and in this space shall be
provided a permanent parking area substantially constructed in a workmanlike
manner. There shall be at least five feet (5') adjacent to the ends of every
mobile home. All mobile homes stationed in said mobile home park shall be a
minimum size of five hundred (500) square feet. All streets and driveways in
every mobile home park must be maintained in a passable and reasonable
condition at all times, and all streets and driveways in every mobile home park
established shall have a minimum width of twenty four feet (24').
   G.   The mobile home parks shall be kept properly and adequately lighted at
all times so that the grounds shall be safe for occupants and visitors.
   H.   An electrical outlet supplying 3-wire one hundred ten (110) to two
hundred twenty (220) volts shall be provided for each mobile home space. Such
outlet shall be equipped with an externally operated fuse switch of not less
than one hundred (100) amperes' capacity and a heavy duty receptacle. Each
mobile home space shall be separately grounded.
   I.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a hard stand of
sufficient size and depth to adequately accommodate a mobile home and shall be
equipped with permanent hooks, and each mobile home shall be anchored to the
ground. Each mobile home shall have skirting affixed, and said skirting shall
consist of material designated for that purpose.
   J.   Mobile home parks shall have an adequate supply of pure water,
furnished through a pipe distribution system connected directly with the city
water main. No common drinking vessels shall be permitted. (1977 Code)
   K.   Service buildings housing sanitation and laundry facilities, or any
such facilities, shall be permanent structures complying with all applicable
ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical installations and
plumbing and sanitation systems and must meet all requirements as set forth by
the state department of public health. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
   L.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a trapped sewer at least
three inches (3") in diameter, which shall be connected to receive all
wastewater of the mobile home harbored in such space and having any or all of
such facilities. The trapped sewer in each space shall be connected to
discharge the mobile home waste into a public sewer system in compliance with
applicable ordinances or into a private sewer disposal plant or septic tank
system of such construction and in such manner as will present no health
hazard. (1977 Code)
   M.   Every park shall be equipped at all times with fire extinguishers in
working order, one in each end of the mobile home. No open fires shall be
permitted. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
   N.   No owner or person in charge of any dog, cat or other pet or animal
shall permit it to run at large or commit any nuisance within the limits of any
mobile home park.
   O.   It shall be the duty of each licensee of a mobile home park to keep a
register containing a record of all mobile home owners and occupants located
within the park. The register shall be made available for inspection at all
times by law enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials
whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the
register.
   P.   In every mobile home park, there shall be an office building in which
shall be located the office of the person in charge of said park. The owner,
manager or agent shall be present at all times. A copy of the park license and
of this chapter shall be posted therein, and the park register shall at all
times be kept in said office.
   Q.   The city council is hereby authorized to revoke any license issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter if, after due investigation, they
determine that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter or any statute incorporated by reference, or that any mobile home or
mobile home park is being maintained in an unsanitary or unsafe manner or is a
nuisance.
   R.   Each licensed mobile home park shall be licensed and maintained as a
single unit, and the entire tract shall remain in single ownership.
   S.   All special assessments levied by the city shall be levied against the
entire tract comprising the mobile home park.
   T.   In compliance with the provisions of this chapter, it shall be the duty
of the licensee and person in charge of any mobile home park licensed hereunder
to comply with the provisions of the mobile park act, as set forth in 210
Illinois Compiled Statutes 115/1 et seq., insofar as said provisions set forth
restrictions that are more strict than those contained in this chapter, and
said provisions of said act are by reference incorporated herein. (1977 Code)
3-4-3: LOCATION OUTSIDE MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful, within the limits of the city, for any person to
park any mobile home on any street or other public place or on any tract of
land owned by any person, occupied or unoccupied, within the city except as
provided in this chapter.
   B.   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street
for not longer than three (3) hours, subject to any other and further
prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic and parking
regulations for that street.
   C.   No person shall park or occupy any mobile home on the premises of any
occupied dwelling, or any lot which is not part of the premises of any occupied
dwelling, either of which being not an approved mobile home park, except the
parking of only one unoccupied camping or travel trailer in an accessory
private garage building, or in a rear yard in any district, is permitted,
provided no living quarters shall be maintained or any business practiced in
said camping or travel trailer while parked or stored. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Exceptions From Solicitation Activities
3-5-4: Certificate Of Registration Required; Fees And Term
3-5-5: Application For Certificate
3-5-6: Issuance And Revocation Of Certificate
3-5-7: Hours Soliciting Permitted
3-5-8: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
3-5-9: Duty Of Solicitors
3-5-10: Uninvited Trespass Prohibited
3-5-11: Penalty
3-5-1: PURPOSE:
Complaints have been received by the police department and the mayor and city
council from occupants of residences and dwelling units about persons who have
gained, or sought to gain, admittance to their residences for the purpose of
soliciting, or on the pretext of soliciting, and have, by their conduct, made
nuisances of themselves by disturbing and annoying the occupants, or by their
acts and conduct have violated the rights of the occupants to the quiet and
peaceful enjoyment and security of their homes; and in some cases, persons have
apparently sought admittance to a residence as a solicitor for the purpose of
gaining information for some illegal purposes or to commit an illegal act; and
the corporate authorities deem it necessary to invoke the police powers for the
protection of the residents of the city against such occurrences and, for that
purpose, to provide regulations which will tend to prevent them; and the city
council declares that the regulations established by this chapter are necessary
for the safety, comfort, good order and welfare of the residents of the city
who desire the protection by the enforcement of the regulations established by
this chapter by and through their cooperation. (Ord., 1-22-1980; amd. 2010
Code)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Means and includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in
soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITING: Means and includes any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, and services of any kind, character or description whatever, for
any kind of consideration whatever; or
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   D.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project; or
   E.   Going upon any premises and ringing the doorbell upon or near any door,
or creating any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of engaging in any of the
activities described in this definition. (Ord., 1-22-1980)
3-5-3: EXCEPTIONS FROM SOLICITATION ACTIVITIES:
The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter: (2010 Code)
   A.   Any local organization, including any charitable, religious, civic,
local fire or police auxiliary, school or scouting organization or any other
not for profit organization in good standing in the state; or
   B.   Seeking to obtain signatures to petitions on political or public policy
questions or matters; or
   C.   Seeking to conduct any of the activities enumerated in section
3-5-1 of this chapter when undertaken by any person pursuant to a previous
appointment or invitation of the party being contacted. (Ord., 1-22-1980)
3-5-4: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEES AND TERM:
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in "soliciting", as defined in section
3-5-2 of this chapter, from persons in residences within the city is hereby
required to make written application for a certificate of registration as
hereinafter provided. Any person, firm, corporation or association desiring to
make application for a solicitor's certificate of registration shall pay a fee
of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for one certificate of registration, and
thirty five dollars ($35.00) for each additional salesperson or representative.
The fee is due and payable to the city of Mt. Pulaski at the time of
application for a solicitor's certificate of registration. All solicitor
certificates of registration are valid for seven (7) days only. (Ord., 1-10-
2006)
   B.   After a certificate of registration has been issued to the applicant,
the initial fee is nonreturnable. There will be no fee collected in those cases
that an application for certificate of registration is initially denied prior
to a certificate of registration being issued.
   C.   The city collector is hereby required to keep and maintain documented
records of all fees collected for certificates of registration, and shall, on a
monthly basis, deposit all fees collected with the city clerk along with an
accountability report of same. (Ord., 1-22-1980; amd. 2010 Code)
3-5-5: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the chief of police of the city and filed with said chief of
police. All applications for a certificate of registration must be completed a
minimum of one day prior to the day in which the certificate of registration is
being requested. The applicant shall truthfully state, in full, the information
requested on the application, as follows:
   A.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address.
   B.   Applicant's date and place of birth and social security number.
   C.   Age of the applicant and marital status, and if married, the name of
the applicant's spouse.
   D.   Physical description of the applicant.
   E.   Complete name and address of the person, firm, corporation or
association by whom the applicant is employed or represents, and the length of
time the applicant has been employed or has represented such person, firm,
corporation or association.
   F.   The complete name, address and title of the applicant's immediate
supervisor.
   G.   If the applicant has been employed in his or her current position for
less than three (3) years, list the complete name, address and title of the
immediate supervisor of the last job preceding the current job or position.
   H.   A current telephone number for which verification can be made of the
applicant's present job status.
   I.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the
soliciting which the applicant will engage in while in the city.
   J.   The exact period of time for which the certificate is applied.
   K.   Whether or not a certificate of registration issued to the applicant
under this chapter has ever been revoked.
   L.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter or the ordinances of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting.
   M.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States.
   N.   Any additional information as the chief of police may deem necessary to
process the application.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath.
In addition to any other requirements of this section, the chief of police may
require any applicant to submit to fingerprinting and photo identification
processes by the police department of the city in connection with the
application for obtaining a certificate of registration.
The chief of police shall cause to be kept in his office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon, together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto, and all certificates of registration issued under
the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of applications. Applications
for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every
certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with the
duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued.
No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States, within five (5) years of the
date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter; nor to any person whose
certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as
herein provided. (Ord., 1-22-1980)
3-5-6: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
The chief of police, after consideration of the application and all information
obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the applicant does not
possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein required, and that
the issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant would not be in
accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Endorsement shall be made
by the chief of police upon the application of the denial of the application.
When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate of
registration shall be issued forthwith.
Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by the chief
of police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false material statement in
the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a
certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately upon
such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the chief of police
to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed
to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration is
and shall become null and void.
The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date thereof. (Ord.,
1-22-1980)
3-5-7: HOURS SOLICITING PERMITTED:
Soliciting is allowed Mondays through Saturdays, from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (Ord., 2-10-1987; amd. 2010 Code)
3-5-8: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
No person shall engage in solicitation upon any premises or in any dwelling
house, apartment or other residence located thereon within the city after
having been asked by the owner or occupant thereof to leave such premises or
residence, nor shall any person engage in solicitation upon any premises or in
any dwelling house, apartment or other residence located thereon if such
premises or dwelling building is posted against solicitation by means of a
notice prominently displayed, upon which is printed the legend:
   NO SOLICITORS
   or
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   or
   NO TRESPASSING
which notice is posted or exhibited at or near the main entrance to the
premises or on or near the main door to any dwelling or residence thereon or at
any point of approach or any entry thereto. (Ord., 1-22-1980)
3-5-9: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
It shall be the duty of every solicitor, that after applying for and receiving
a certificate of registration, upon going onto any premises located within the
city, upon which a "residence", as defined in section
3-5-2 of this chapter, is located, to first examine the premises to determine
if a prohibition sign as described in section
3-5-8 of this chapter is present. If such a prohibition sign is present and
visible, the solicitor is prohibited from entering the property for the purpose
of solicitation. If such a prohibition sign is not present, the solicitor may
then proceed onto the property for purposes of solicitation.
Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the owner or occupant. (Ord., 1-22-1980)
3-5-10: UNINVITED TRESPASS PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a trespass for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof, and engage in "soliciting", as defined in section
3-5-2 of this chapter, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in
accordance with the provisions of section
3-5-9 of this chapter. (Ord., 1-22-1980)
3-5-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not exceeding that set
out in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 1-22-1980; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SOUND AMPLIFIERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Required
3-6-2: License Fee
3-6-3: Application For License
3-6-4: Issuance Of License
3-6-5: Restrictions
3-6-6: Penalty
3-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any loudspeaker or amplifier
connected with any radio, phonograph, microphone or other device by which
sounds are magnified so as to be heard on any public street or public place
without having first obtained a license therefor. (1967 Code § 27.601)
3-6-2: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for such license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each day of such
license. (1967 Code § 27.602)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license for the use or operation of such a device shall
file an application therefor with the city clerk upon a form provided thereby,
setting forth the name and address of the applicant, the name and address of
the device, the date upon which the device is intended to be used, and such
other information as may be prescribed. (1967 Code § 27.603)
3-6-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Such license shall be issued upon the payment of the license fee, as provided
in section
3-6-2 of this chapter, to the city clerk and shall permit the use of any such
device subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and only upon the
date specified on such license and no other. (1967 Code § 27.604)
3-6-5: RESTRICTIONS:
No licensee shall use, operate or employ any such device within the city limits
on Sunday or after the hour of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., prevailing time, of
any day, or before the hour of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., prevailing time, of
any day. No licensee shall use, operate or employ any such device within a
radius of two (2) blocks from any hospital or care center or within the radius
of two (2) blocks from any church or other place of public worship while
services are being held therein. (Ord., 10-11-1983; amd. 2010 Code)
No person shall cause or permit to be emanated or emitted from any device any
lewd, obscene, profane or indecent language or sounds, or any false
representation of any matter, product or project advertised thereby, the sale
of which is prohibited by law, ordinance or statute. (Ord., 10-11-1983)
3-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL TAXES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Service Occupation Tax
3-7-2: Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-7-3: Municipal Use Tax
3-7-4: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3-7-5: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
3-7-6: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3-7-1: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the city in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of revenue
required by section 9 of the "service occupation tax act", approved July 10,
1961, as amended 1 .
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 2024, 8-26-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3-7-2: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section 3 of "an act in relation to a tax
upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipt from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Ord. 2025, 8-26-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-7-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-6 of the Illinois municipal code, upon the privilege of using in the city
any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of
Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of such tangible property with "selling price" to have the
meaning as defined in the use tax act 1 , approved July 14, 1955.
   B.   Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois department of revenue and
shall be paid before the title or certificate of registration for the personal
property is issued. (1977 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-7-4: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting automobiles in the city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-7 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of "an act in relation to a
tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
to purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 29, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
   D.   The city clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the state department
of revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five (5) days after
the effective date hereof.
   E.   This section shall be effective on the first day of the calendar month
next following publication as provided in section
1-2-4 of the Illinois municipal code. Certified proof of publication shall be
forwarded to the Illinois department of revenue along with the certified copy
of this section as required by subsection D of this section. (Ord., 1-12-1982)
 
Notes
1 3. 35 ILCS 155/1 et seq.
3-7-5: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in the city an
automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and which is titled
or registered with an agency of this state's government in the city at the rate
of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile while this section
is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-8 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   The tax provided in this section shall be collected from the persons
whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as being
in the city.
   C.   The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the Illinois
department of revenue.
   D.   The city clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the state department
of revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five (5) days after
the effective date hereof.
   E.   This section shall be effective on the first day of the second calendar
month next following publication as provided in section
1-2-4 of the Illinois municipal code. Certified proof of publication shall be
forwarded to the Illinois department of revenue along with the certified copy
of this section required by subsection D of this section. (Ord., 1-12-1982)
3-7-6: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
   A.   A simplified municipal telecommunications tax is hereby imposed upon
the act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the city
intrastate or interstate telecommunications by a person under the provisions of
the simplified municipal telecommunications tax act, P.A. 92-0526 1 , at a rate
of six percent (6%) of the gross charges for such telecommunications purchased
at retail from a retailer.
   B.   The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the
department of revenue of the state of Illinois. The Illinois department of
revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
section.
   C.   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law;
provided, however, that subsection A of this section shall take effect for all
gross charges billed by telecommunications retailers on and after July 1, 2005.
The city clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this section with
the Illinois department of revenue prior to March 20, 2005. (Ord., 3-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Adoption Of State Standards By Reference
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: License Requirements
3-8-4: Renewal License; Fee; Inspection
3-8-5: Construction Or Remodeling Plans To Be Approved
3-8-6: Inspections
3-8-7: Report Of Findings
3-8-8: Fire Safety
3-8-9: Proof Of Liability
3-8-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-8-11: Violation; Penalty
3-8-1: ADOPTION OF STATE STANDARDS BY REFERENCE:
The minimum standards for bed and breakfast establishments shall be those
established in the Illinois bed and breakfast act, public act 85-0399 1 ,
paragraphs 2, 4, 5, and 6, as adopted, and as may hereafter be revised or
amended, and adopted herein by reference. (Ord., 4-26-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to those definitions established in the Illinois bed and breakfast
act, the following definitions shall be interpreted and defined as follows, for
the purposes of this chapter:
DEPARTMENT: The Logan County health department.
HEALTH OFFICIAL: A duly authorized employee of the Logan County board of
health. (Ord., 4-26-1988)
3-8-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to open, establish, maintain, or operate a
bed and breakfast establishment within the corporate limits of the city without
first obtaining a license therefor from the department. Such license shall
expire one year from the date of issuance. Applications for original licenses
shall be made on forms furnished by the department. Each application to the
department shall be signed by the applicant and accompanied with a license fee
of twenty dollars ($20.00), payable to the department. License fees are not
refundable. Each application shall contain: the name and address of the
applicant, or names and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a
partnership, or the names and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a
corporation, or the names and addresses of all the persons having an interest
therein if the applicant is a group of individuals, an association, or a trust;
and the location of the bed and breakfast establishment. Upon receipt of an
application for an original license, the department shall inspect such bed and
breakfast establishment to ensure substantial compliance with this chapter.
(Ord., 4-26-1988)
3-8-4: RENEWAL LICENSE; FEE; INSPECTION:
Thirty (30) days before the expiration of a bed and breakfast establishment
license, an application for the renewal of said license shall be made to the
department by the holder of the license, on forms furnished by the department.
The license application shall be accompanied by a license application fee of
twenty dollars ($20.00), which shall not be refundable, and shall contain any
change in information since the original license was issued or the latest
renewal granted. If, after inspection, the department is satisfied that the bed
and breakfast establishment is in substantial compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, the department shall issue a renewal license. (Ord., 4-26-1988)
3-8-5: CONSTRUCTION OR REMODELING PLANS TO BE APPROVED:
When a bed and breakfast establishment is hereafter constructed or extensively
remodeled, or when an existing structure is converted for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment, properly prepared plans shall be submitted to the
department for approval before such work is begun. (Ord., 4-26-1988)
3-8-6: INSPECTIONS:
A health official, after proper identification, shall be permitted to enter a
bed and breakfast establishment at any reasonable time for the purpose of
making inspections to determine compliance with this chapter. The health
official shall be permitted to examine the records of the bed and breakfast
establishment pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received, or used, and
certification of food managers. (Ord., 4-26-1988)
3-8-7: REPORT OF FINDINGS:
Whenever an inspection of a bed and breakfast establishment is made, the
findings shall be recorded on the inspection form. The inspection report form
shall summarize the requirements of this chapter and shall set forth a weighted
point value for each requirement. Inspection remarks shall be written with
reference to the requirement violated. The remarks shall state the violation
observed during the inspection and shall state the correction to be made. The
rating score of the establishment shall be the total weighted point values of
all violations subtracted from one hundred (100). A copy of the complete
inspection form shall be furnished to the person in charge of the establishment
at the conclusion of the inspection. (Ord., 4-26-1988)
3-8-8: FIRE SAFETY:
Each bed and breakfast establishment shall provide proof of substantial
compliance with section 6 of the bed and breakfast act 1 . (Ord., 4-26-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 820/6.
3-8-9: PROOF OF LIABILITY:
Each bed and breakfast establishment shall provide proof of liability insurance
for review by the department. (Ord., 4-26-1988)
3-8-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A bed and breakfast establishment license is subject to suspension or
revocation as follows:
   A.   The Logan County board of health may immediately suspend the license of
a bed and breakfast establishment for any violation of this chapter, or for
interference with the health official in the performance of his duties. Said
board of health shall give a written notice citing the suspension of license to
the license holder. The license holder may file a written request for a hearing
with said board of health, which hearing shall be held within ten (10) days of
receipt of such request. When a license is suspended, the suspension shall be
in effect until the board of health issues a new license. Prior to such action,
the health official will inspect the establishment for compliance and report
the findings thereof to the board of health. The owner or operator of the bed
and breakfast establishment shall have the right to seek review of any final
order of the Logan County board of health as provided in the Illinois
administrative review law 1 .
   B.   A notice provided in this chapter is properly served when it is
delivered to the holder of the license or the person in charge, or when it is
sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the holder of the license. A copy of the notice shall be filed
in the records of the department.
   C.   All hearings provided in this chapter shall be conducted by the Logan
County board of health at a time and place designated thereby. Such hearings
shall be conducted according to rules adopted by the said board of health.
(Ord., 4-26-1988)
 
Notes
1 2. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
3-8-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be a petty offense with a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day a violation of any standard is
found to exist shall be a separate offense. (Ord., 4-26-1988; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ADULT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Strip Clubs
3-9-1: STRIP CLUBS:
No riotous, disorderly, indecent or offensive conduct of any kind shall be
allowed in or about a strip club premises. No conduct shall be permitted that
exposes the following to public view:
   A.   Human genitals and pubic regions.
   B.   Human buttocks, perineum and anal region.
   C.   Human breast below a point immediately above the areola.
   D.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   E.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, bestiality,
oral copulation, flagellation, or any other sexual acts prohibited by law.
   F.   Fondling, touching, or caressing human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, and/or female breasts. (Ord., 4-8-2003)
CHAPTER 10
GAMBLING
SECTION:
3-10-1: Video Gambling
3-10-1: VIDEO GAMBLING:
Gambling shall be permitted in licensed establishments as permitted under and
in compliance with the Illinois video gaming act 1 . (Ord., 11-13-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 11
BUSINESS DISTRICT TAXES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Business District Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-11-2: Business District Service Occupation Tax
3-11-3: Mt. Pulaski Business District Tax Allocation Fund
3-11-1: BUSINESS DISTRICT RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A Business District Retailers' Occupation Tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other
than an item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an agency
of this State's government, at retail within the Business District (as
described and designated by exhibit A on file in the City) at the rate of 1.00
percent of the gross receipts from the sales made in the course of such
business. This tax is not imposed on food for human consumption that is to be
consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption),
prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances,
modifications to a motor vehicle for the purpose of rendering it usable by a
disabled person, and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles
used by diabetics, for human use. This tax shall be in effect for so long as
the Business District shall continue in existence and shall terminate upon
termination of the Business District. The tax imposed by this section and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereof shall be collected
and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue and paid over to the City as
provided by the Business District Development and Redevelopment Act found at 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.3-1 et seq., as amended from time to time
(the "Act"). (Ord. 021420172, 1-14-2017)
3-11-2: BUSINESS DISTRICT SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A Business District Service Occupation Tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged, within the Business District, in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
tangible personal property within the Business District, either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service. The tax shall be imposed at the rate of 1.00 percent of the
selling price of tangible personal property so transferred within the Business
District. This tax is not imposed on food for human consumption that is to be
consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption),
prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances,
modifications to a motor vehicle for the purpose of rendering it usable by a
disabled person, and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles
used by diabetics, for human use. This tax shall be in effect for so long as
the Business District shall continue in existence and shall terminate upon
termination of the Business District. The tax imposed by this section and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereof shall be collected
and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue and paid over to the City as
provided by the Act. (Ord. 021420172, 1-14-2017)
3-11-3: MT. PULASKI BUSINESS DISTRICT TAX ALLOCATION FUND:
The proceeds of the taxes imposed herein shall be deposited into a special fund
held by the Treasurer of the City called the "Mt. Pulaski Business District Tax
Allocation Fund". Money deposited in such fund shall be expended in accordance
with the provisions of the Act and in accordance with the Business District
Development and Redevelopment Plan approved by this section. (Ord. 021420172,
1-14-2017)
CHAPTER 12
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: Allowance
3-12-3: Violations
3-12-4: Severability
3-12-5: Effective Date
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this Article have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A.I01-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent. (Ord. 19-12092019, 12-9-2019)
3-12-2: ALLOWANCE:
The City of Mt. Pulaski adopts by reference the Illinois Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, Public Act 101-0027 and authorizes the possession, use, and sale
of adult-use cannabis within the City of Mt. Pulaski, cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization, in strict accordance with the Act and current or
future zoning restrictions.  (Ord. 19-12092019, 12-9-2019)
3-12-3: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this Article may be enforced in accordance with the provisions of
§
1-4-1 of this Code.  (Ord. 19-12092019, 12-9-2019)
3-12-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Ordinance, or the application of any provision of this
Ordinance, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this Ordinance, or their application, that can
be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this Ordinance. (Ord. 19-
12092019, 12-9- 2019)
3-12-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication as required by law. (Ord. 19-12092019, 12-9-2019)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
4-1-2: Penalty
4-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The following listed codes are hereby adopted as the building codes for the
city for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided, and each
and all regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of said codes are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
chapter. Three (3) copies of each of the codes adopted in this section are on
file in the office of the city clerk for public use and inspection.
International building code, 2006 edition.
International fire code, 2006 edition.
International mechanical code, 2006 edition.
International fuel gas code, 2006 edition.
International property maintenance code, 2006 edition.
International energy conservation code, 2006 edition.
International residential code, 2006 edition.
Illinois accessibility code, 1997 edition.
The term "building official", as used in the codes adopted in this section,
shall mean the building inspector or any other officer of the city, designated
by the city council, having the duty to enforce the building regulations of the
city. (2010 Code)
4-1-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of the codes adopted in section
4-1-1 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (2010
Code)
ARTICLE A.  PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
4-1A-2: Permit Required; Application
4-1A-3: Permit Fee
4-1A-4: Exposure For Inspection
4-1A-5: Enforcing Officer
4-1A-6: Standards
4-1A-7: Penalty
4-1A-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
The plumbing and fixtures installed in any building in the city must be
installed to comply with the state plumbing code, promulgated by the state
department of public health, which is hereby adopted as the standard of
specifications for plumbing. It shall be unlawful to install any plumbing or
fixtures which do not comply with the said regulations. (1967 Code § 14.104)
The plumbing inspector shall keep on file in his office three (3) copies of the
state plumbing code, which shall be available for inspection. (1967 Code §
14.106; amd. 2010 Code)
4-1A-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
No plumbing shall be installed in any place in the city unless a permit
therefor is first obtained. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
clerk and shall state thereon the name of the person or contractor intended to
have charge of the installation, and the nature and extent of the proposed
installation. (1967 Code § 14.101)
4-1A-3: PERMIT FEE:
The fee for a permit shall be one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) for each fixture
included in the system. Bathtubs, lavatories, closets, sinks, laundry tubs,
drinking fountains, shower receptacles, urinals, sinks, soda fountains and
traps shall be considered fixtures. (1967 Code § 14.102)
4-1A-4: EXPOSURE FOR INSPECTION:
In all buildings hereafter erected, both public and private, and in all
buildings already built or erected wherein any plumbing is hereafter installed
or wherein any sewer or connection pipe shall be hereafter repaired or changed,
except for minor repairs, on the sewer side of the trap, the drain, soil,
rainwater and other pipe or pipes directly or indirectly connected into any
drain, soil or waste pipe, and all traps, shall be exposed for view for
inspection and test by the plumbing inspector, and shall not be covered until
such test is made. (1967 Code § 14.103)
4-1A-5: ENFORCING OFFICER:
The plumbing inspector shall enforce the provisions of the state plumbing code
in the city. (1967 Code § 14.105)
4-1A-6: STANDARDS:
All work done on any plumbing system shall be performed in an efficient and
workmanlike manner. (1967 Code § 14.108)
4-1A-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, or continuing to
work in violation of a stop order issued by the plumbing inspector 1 , shall be
subject to penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1967
Code § 14.109; amd. 1977 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-11-3C2 of this code.
ARTICLE B.  ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Definition
4-1B-2: Rules And Regulations Adopted
4-1B-3: Permit Required; Application
4-1B-4: Certificate Of Approval
4-1B-5: Penalty
4-1B-1: DEFINITION:
The term "electrical equipment", as used in this article, shall be construed to
mean and include conductors and equipment installed for the utilization of
electricity supplied for light, heat or power, but does not include radio
apparatus or equipment for the wireless reception of sounds and signals, nor
ordinary household equipment or appliances such as toasters, vacuum cleaners,
and washing machines, and does not include apparatus, conductors and other
equipment installed for and by the public utilities, including common carriers,
which are under the jurisdiction of the Illinois commerce commission for use in
their operation as public utilities. (1967 Code § 17.001)
4-1B-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The following are hereby adopted as safe and practical standards for the
installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment in the city:
   A.   The rules and regulations of the National Board of Fire Underwriters,
as contained in the code known as the national electrical code, and as approved
by the American Standards Association, as last published.
   B.   The rules and regulations regarding the installation, alteration and
use of electrical equipment as adopted by the electricity supply company now
supplying the city, as last published and filed with the Illinois commerce
commission, a copy of said code and the last mentioned rules and regulations
being now on file in the office of the clerk and of the electrical inspector.
(1967 Code § 17.002)
4-1B-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
The following are hereby adopted as reasonable rules and regulations governing
the issuance of permits for electrical installations or alterations:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to install or alter any electrical equipment or
wiring without having first secured a permit therefor.
   B.   Applications for such permits shall be made in writing to the clerk,
and shall be referred by him to the electrical inspector.
   C.   Each application shall contain the name of the owner of the premises to
be served, the name of the contractor doing the work and the nature of the work
to be done. Where the work consists of new installations or extensive repairs
or alterations, plans and specifications of the work shall accompany the
application. (1967 Code § 17.003)
4-1B-4: CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL:
The electrical inspector shall issue a certificate of approval after each
inspection in which the wiring or apparatus is found to be in compliance with
the terms of this article and with the rules adopted hereby.
It shall be unlawful to use or to turn on power into any wires or apparatus
hereinafter installed for which such certificate has not been issued because
the permit was not secured for installation or because the work was not
completed according to the provisions of this article. (1967 Code § 17.005)
4-1B-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING PERMITS; GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Permit Required
4-2-2: Application For Permit
4-2-3: Approval Of Plans
4-2-4: Permit Fees
4-2-5: Variations
4-2-6: Bond For Contractor Excavations
4-2-7: Enforcement Of Provisions
4-2-8: Term Of Permit
4-2-9: Stop Work Order
4-2-10: Interpretation
4-2-11: Penalty
4-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct any building or structure, other than a
fence, in the city where the cost of such construction exceeds one hundred
dollars ($100.00), or to alter or remodel any building or structure so as to
change the bearing walls, beams, supports or the roof thereof, without having
first secured a permit therefor. (1967 Code § 13.101)
4-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applications for such permits shall be made to the building inspector and shall
be accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate, showing the work to be
done; such plans shall be verified by the signature of either the owner of the
premises or by the architect or contractor in charge of operations. (1967 Code
§ 13.103)
4-2-3: APPROVAL OF PLANS:
Such applications with plans shall be referred to the building inspector, who
shall examine the same to determine whether the proposed alterations will
comply with the ordinance provisions relating thereto. Upon approval, one set
of plans shall be returned by the building inspector. No permit shall be issued
except after approval of the plans and payment of the fee provided herein.
(1967 Code § 13.104)
4-2-4: PERMIT FEES:
The fees for such permits shall be as follows:
Building permit fee schedule:
$35.00 minimum for the first $5,000.00 in value, then $1.00 for $1,000.00 in
value.
The above fees are for the following permits:
Alterations.
Apartments, per apartment unit.
Dwelling house, 1 story or 11/2 stories.
1 or 2 car garage.
Other buildings, including commercial. (Ord., 4-10-2012, eff. 5-1-2012)
4-2-5: VARIATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to vary from the approved plans and specifications
deposited with and approved by the city council unless amended plans and
specifications showing such proposed alteration or variation are first filed
with the city council and approved thereby; if such variation involves an
increase in the total cost of the work, a statement to that effect shall be
made and the necessary additional fee shall be paid. (1967 Code § 13.106)
4-2-6: BOND FOR CONTRACTOR EXCAVATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to commence work on any excavation, or on any construction
work in the city involving driving or hauling machinery, trucks or equipment
over any parkway or sidewalk area, or involving excavating or leveling of any
parkway or sidewalk area unless the person doing such work shall first have
filed with the city council a bond, with corporate surety, conditioned to
indemnify the city for any damage done to any city property, including any
curb, pavement, cable, pipe, shutoff box or other equipment, in the course of
such work.
Where the work contemplated includes the making of any excavation for any
structure or foundation, the bond shall also be conditioned that the building
or structure contemplated shall be completed within one year from the date of
commencement of work or the excavation refilled and the surface restored to its
original condition.
Such bond shall be in the principal amount of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), payable to the city, in the event of any breach of the conditions
of such bond. (1967 Code § 13.107)
4-2-7: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector and any lawfully appointed
deputies to enforce the provisions of this title. The building inspector is
hereby empowered to make such inspections as may be necessary to see to the
enforcement of these provisions, and to make any tests or examinations of
materials or methods to be used, for the purpose of seeing if they comply with
the provisions of this title. (1967 Code § 13.108)
4-2-8: TERM OF PERMIT:
No building permit shall be valid for a period of more than one year from the
date of issuance. (1967 Code § 13.109)
4-2-9: STOP WORK ORDER 1 :
The building inspector, or such other person as may be authorized by the city
council, may order work stopped whenever any construction, alteration or repair
work is being done in violation of any provision of this title. Such stop
order, when oral, shall be followed by a written stop order within twenty four
(24) hours. It shall be unlawful to continue work in violation of a stop order
until such order has been revoked by the person issuing it or by the city
council. (1967 Code § 13.110)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-11-1E of this code.
4-2-10: INTERPRETATION:
Whenever in the building regulations it is provided that anything must be done
to the approval of or subject to the direction of the building inspector or any
other officer of the city, this shall be construed to give such officer only
the discretion of determining whether or not there has been compliance with the
rules and standards established by ordinance, and no such provisions shall be
construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what such
regulations or standards shall be, or power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner. (1967 Code § 13.111)
4-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 3
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Numbering Required
4-3-2: Plan
4-3-3: Chart
4-3-4: Owner And Occupant To Number; Specifications
4-3-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
All lots, buildings and structures in the city shall be numbered in accordance
with the plan described in section
4-3-2 of this chapter. (1967 Code § 10.501)
4-3-2: PLAN:
   A.   Jefferson Street shall be the base or dividing line for numbering
houses on all streets running north and south, and Washington Street shall be
the base or dividing line for all streets running east and west. All streets
running north and south and crossing and being north of Jefferson Street shall
be designated by the prefix "North"; and the portion of all streets crossing
and being south of Jefferson Street shall be designated by the prefix "South".
All streets running east and west and crossing and being east of Washington
Street shall be designated by the prefix "East", and that portion of the
streets lying west of Washington Street shall be designated by the prefix
"West". (1967 Code § 10.502)
   B.   All streets running north and south and being north or south of but not
crossing Jefferson Street shall not be designated by the prefix "North" or
"South", and all streets running east and west and being east or west of but
not crossing Washington Street shall not be designated by the prefix "East" or
"West", and said streets shall be numbered in the same manner and in accordance
with the same system of numbering as set forth in subsection C of this section.
The provisions of this subsection shall in no way change, modify or amend the
provisions of this chapter for the numbering of houses on streets which cross
Jefferson Street or Washington Street, and all such streets so crossing said
base or dividing lines shall continue to be designated by the prefixes "North",
"South", "East" and "West". (Ord., 6-24-1975)
   C.   The first number on each side of Jefferson Street shall be one hundred
(100) and progress north and south therefrom at the rate of one hundred (100)
numbers to each block. The first number on each side of Washington Street shall
be one hundred (100) and progress east and west therefrom at the rate of one
hundred (100) numbers to each block. The odd numbers shall be used upon the
east side of all streets running north and south and upon the north side of all
streets running east and west. Even numbers shall be used on the west side of
all streets running north and south and upon the south side of all the streets
running east and west. (1967 Code § 10.503)
4-3-3: CHART:
The city clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper street number of every lot
in the city, or part lot, allotting one number to each twenty five feet (25'),
which chart shall be open for inspection by anyone interested therein. (1967
Code § 10.504)
4-3-4: OWNER AND OCCUPANT TO NUMBER; SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every house in the city to
have placed thereon, in a place visible from the street, figures showing the
number of that house. (1967 Code § 10.505)
The figures of each number shall not be less than two and one- half inches (21/
2") in height. Each figure shall be legible and placed in a conspicuous
position on the front side or above the front door of each building. (1967 Code
§ 10.505; amd. 1977 Code)
Any person failing to so number any house owned or occupied by him thirty (30)
days after receiving notice from the city clerk shall be fined one dollar
($1.00) for each day on which the failure continues. (1967 Code § 10.505)
CHAPTER 4
BILLBOARDS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definition
4-4-2: Permit Required; Fee
4-4-3: Application For Permit
4-4-4: Specifications And Restrictions
4-4-5: Nuisances
4-4-6: Enforcement
4-4-7: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "billboard" is hereby defined to mean and, for the purpose of this
chapter, shall be construed to mean any signboard or similar structure, the
sole or primary purpose of which is to be used for the display of
advertisements or notices. (1967 Code § 13.601)
4-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful to construct a billboard within the city without having
first secured a permit therefor from the city council; provided, that this
section shall not be construed to require a permit for the construction of a
billboard or signboard, other than a roof sign, the total display area of which
does not exceed fifteen (15) square feet; and provided, that no permit issued
hereunder shall be construed to authorize the construction of or maintenance of
a billboard which extends over any public street, alley or sidewalk or other
public place 1 . The fee for a permit to construct any such billboard shall be
ten dollars ($10.00). (1967 Code § 13.602; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 3 of this code for signs over public ways.
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applications for such permits shall be made in writing to the clerk. Each
application shall state thereon the name of the owner of the premises, the name
of the person or corporation constructing the billboard and specifications
showing the size, material and manner of construction of the billboard. (1967
Code § 13.603)
4-4-4: SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Wind Pressure: Every billboard shall be firmly and solidly constructed
so as to be able to bear a wind pressure of at least thirty (30) pounds per
square foot of area; provided, that billboards which are placed upon roofs must
be so constructed as to be able to withstand a lateral wind pressure of forty
(40) pounds per square inch. (1967 Code § 13.604)
   B.   Fire Escapes: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any billboard
in such a position as to obstruct any fire escape or any window or door leading
thereto, and no billboard shall be fastened to any fire escape. (1967 Code §
13.605)
   C.   Height Above Ground: Every billboard must be so constructed as to leave
an open space of at least two and one-half feet (21/2') between the bottom of
the display area and the ground. This open area may be filled with lattice work
or other ornamental design which does not close off more than two- thirds (2/3)
of any square foot of such open area. Billboards constructed on property on
which there is a properly established building line must be built entirely in
back of this building line, and no permit shall be issued for the construction
of any billboard upon any lot which is subject to a proper building line
restriction, if the billboard is to be constructed in violation of the building
line restriction. (1967 Code § 13.606)
   D.   Fireproof Construction: It shall be unlawful to construct any billboard
of over fifteen (15) square feet in area anywhere in the fire limits unless the
face of such billboard is constructed of noncombustible material. (1967 Code §
13.607)
   E.   Roof Signs: It shall be unlawful to construct any billboard on the roof
of any building or structure of any but incombustible materials. All such roof
signs or billboards must be so constructed so that there is at least four feet
(4') of space between the billboard or signboard and the edge of the roof at
all sides and ends. It shall be unlawful to construct any roof sign or
billboard on the roof of any building which is unable to withstand the
additional weight and wind pressure imposed by such construction. All roof
signs and billboards which are constructed entirely of fireproof materials
shall be so constructed and braced that the supports of such signs or
billboards shall bear directly on the masonry walls of such buildings or upon
the steel girders which are supported by the masonry walls.
The metal supports and parts of every roof sign shall be thoroughly and
properly painted at least once each two (2) years, unless they are galvanized
or otherwise adequately protected against rust and corrosion. (1967 Code §
13.608)
   F.   Billboards Near Buildings: It shall be unlawful to construct any
billboard, a majority of the display area of which is within four feet (4') of
any building, unless such billboard is constructed of noncombustible material.
(1967 Code § 13.609)
   G.   Illuminated Billboards: The wiring of illuminated billboards and
signboards must comply with the provisions of the ordinances relating to
electrical wiring 1 . (1967 Code § 13.610)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1, article B of this title.
4-4-5: NUISANCES:
Any billboard or signboard which is dangerous because of insecure construction
or fastening with resultant danger of falling, or because it is an extreme fire
hazard and in fact a nuisance, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be
abated as such. (1967 Code § 13.611)
4-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, and he is hereby authorized to do so. (1967 Code § 13.612)
4-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 5
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition; Nuisance Declared
4-5-2: Prohibition
4-5-3: Abatement
4-5-4: Buildings Within Fire Limits
4-5-5: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITION; NUISANCE DECLARED:
The term "dangerous buildings", as used in this chapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include:
   A.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is dangerous
to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or aid in
the spread of disease, or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures.
   B.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is
especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
   C.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, by reason
of faulty construction or other cause, is liable to cause injury or damage by
collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure.
   D.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
such structure.
Any such dangerous building in the city is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1967 Code § 13.301)
4-5-2: PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the city; and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition. (1967 Code § 13.302)
4-5-3: ABATEMENT:
Whenever the building inspector, the director of public works or the county
health officer shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in the
city is a dangerous building, he shall file a written statement to this effect
with the city clerk. The clerk shall, upon order of the city council, cause
written notice to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant
thereof, if any, by registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall
state that the building has been declared to be in a dangerous condition, and
that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or
altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the condition must be
remedied. Such notice may be in the following terms: (1967 Code § 13.303; amd.
2010 Code)
To                  (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known and
described as                         .
You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by the Building Inspector.
The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
City will proceed to do so.
If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken an
appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists, within ten (10) days from the time when this notice
is served upon such person by personal service or registered mail, the building
inspector may, upon orders of the city council, proceed to remedy the condition
or demolish the dangerous building. (1967 Code § 13.303)
4-5-4: BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS:
Any frame building or structure within the fire limits of the city which has or
may be damaged by fire, decay or other causes to the extent of fifty percent
(50%) of its fair market value at the time of damage, shall be torn down and
removed, or rebuilt with nonflammable walls.
Upon written notice by the building inspector, the county health officer or the
director of public works to the effect that such building has been so damaged,
filed with the city clerk, the clerk shall notify the city council of the
receipt of such notice. (1967 Code § 13.304; amd. 1977 Code; 2010 Code)
The city council shall then appoint three (3) persons to determine whether or
not such building or structure has been damaged to the extent of fifty percent
(50%) of its fair market value at the time of damage.
A copy of the notice of the appointment of this board of three (3) persons to
determine the damage shall be served upon the owner of the premises by personal
service or by registered mail at his last known address. Such notice shall be
in substantially the following form:
To                            
You are hereby notified that                          has determined that the
building owned by you at                            located within the fire
limits of the City has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to the extent
of fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value at the time of damage, and that
a board of three (3) persons has been appointed to verify this finding, which
board will hold its first meeting in the City Hall on the                day of
               at the hour of              o'clock, at which time it will
determine whether or not this finding is correct.
If this finding is verified by the board, you must tear down and remove the
said building, or rebuild it with nonflammable walls.
If this finding is verified by the board of three (3) members, and it
determines that the building in question has been damaged to the extent of
fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value at the time of damage, it shall be
the duty of the owner to tear down and remove the said building within twenty
(20) days after the finding of such board, or to remodel it to comply with the
requirements of new buildings in the fire limits, and it shall be unlawful to
occupy or permit the occupancy of such building after such finding until it is
so remodeled. (1967 Code § 13.304; amd. 1977 Code)
4-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or permitting any dangerous
building, or any building or structure to remain in a dangerous condition, or
to remain in the fire limits without remodeling as provided in this chapter,
after it has been damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its fair
market value at the time of damage, shall be subject to penalty under the
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1967
Code § 13.305; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RENTAL HOUSING NOTIFICATION AND INSPECTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
4-6-1: Mandatory Rental Housing Notification And Inspection Program
4-6-1: MANDATORY RENTAL HOUSING NOTIFICATION AND INSPECTION PROGRAM:
   A.   Inspection Required; Definitions:
      1.   Inspection Of Property: No person shall lease, let, or otherwise
allow, the use of any property as a rental dwelling within the city unless that
property has been inspected by the building inspector.
      2.   Inspections Prior To Enactment: Inspections made prior to the
enactment of this section shall be considered an inspection under this section.
      3.   Definitions:
    BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector of the city or any of his/her
employees or agents.
   OWNER: Any person or legal entity who has a full or partial ownership
interest in a rental dwelling either by deed, including life estate deed, or
land installment contract (contract for deed).
   RENTAL DWELLING: A unit of residential real estate not occupied by an owner
which is leased, let or otherwise allowed to be used for residential purposes
in exchange for consideration. Separate dwelling units of the same building
shall be considered separate rental dwellings. There is a rebuttable
presumption that residential real estate that is not occupied by an owner is a
rental dwelling. This presumption may be rebutted by clear and convincing
evidence.
   B.   Inspections Authorized:
      1.   The building inspector is hereby authorized and obligated to conduct
inspections of any and all rental dwellings, or units thereof, within the city
to determine compliance with the standards and regulations set forth in this
code.
      2.   The building inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and
survey all rental dwellings within the city. All inspections shall occur at
reasonable hours except in emergency situations where the life, health, and/or
safety of any individual is threatened.
   C.   Frequency, Access For And Notice Of Inspection:
      1.   All rental dwellings shall be inspected by the building inspector
upon becoming a rental dwelling and once every five (5) years thereafter.
Additionally, a rental dwelling shall be inspected between three (3) and five
(5) years from the last inspection if the rental unit has a new tenant since
the last inspection. Inspections may occur more frequently, provided there is:
         a.   Reasonable suspicion to believe that there exists conditions
which present a threat to the health, safety, welfare or general comfort of the
resident(s) of such rental dwelling; or
         b.   A complaint lodged by the resident(s) of the rental dwelling to
be inspected; or
         c.   A request made by a prospective resident accompanied by the
consent of the owner (or owner's agent) of the rental dwelling to be inspected;
or
         d.   A request made by the owner or owner's agent.
      2.   Every owner or owner's agent of any rental dwelling shall provide
access to such rental dwelling, or any unit thereof, to the building inspector
for purposes of inspecting the rental dwelling or unit thereof for compliance
with all applicable standards and regulations set forth in this code. Either
the owner, the owner's agent, or the occupant shall accompany the inspector
during the inspection.
      3.   Notice shall be given to the owner or the owner's agent and the
occupant of the rental dwelling, or unit thereof, at least one hundred twenty
(120) hours in advance of such inspection except in those situations described
in subsections C1a, C1b, and C1d of this section.
      4.   Notice of inspection shall be provided to both the owner or owner's
agent and occupant and may consist of a letter sent by first class mail,
personal service, telephone call or, for occupants only, the posting of a door
hanger upon the doorknob of the rental dwelling. The form of notice shall be at
the city's sole discretion; provided, however, the form used substantially
achieves the purpose of this "notice" requirement. Where a rental dwelling is
occupied by more than one person, notice to one occupant shall be deemed notice
to all occupants of the rental dwelling.
   D.   Identification Of Rental Dwelling And Designation Of Owner's Agent:
      1.   The owner(s) of a rental dwelling must notify the city building
inspector of the existence of said rental dwelling seven (7) or more days prior
to its occupancy, or within seven (7) days from obtaining ownership, on a form
approved by the building inspector including the name(s) of the owner(s) and
manager(s) and agent(s) and the address and telephone number of each. Owner(s)
must notify the city of any changes in ownership, management or agency within
seven (7) days of the change.
      2.   The owner(s) of a rental dwelling must notify the city building
inspector within seven (7) days of a new tenant taking possession of a rental
dwelling if said possession is within three (3) to five (5) years from the last
inspection.
      3.   Every owner of any rental dwelling who does not reside in Logan
County or a county adjoining Logan County shall appoint and designate an
individual to act as an agent in his behalf. Such written notice shall contain
the signature of the agent accepting appointment and designation as agent of
the owner.
      4.   Any individual who is appointed and designated as agent of the owner
shall reside within Logan County, Illinois, or any other Illinois county which
adjoins Logan County, Illinois. An owner of a rental dwelling may act as his
own agent, provided he meets the residency requirements set forth herein.
   E.   Occupants To Provide Access For Inspections And Compliance With Code:
      1.   Each and every occupant of a rental dwelling shall give the owner
thereof, his agent or employee or agents of the building inspector, access to
the rental dwelling, or unit thereof under their control, to conduct
inspections authorized by this section.
      2.   Each and every occupant of a rental dwelling shall give the owner
thereof, or his agent or his employees, access to any part of such rental
dwelling at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
section or with any standard regulation set forth in this code.
   F.   Notice Of Violations:
      1.   If violations are detected by the building inspector, the building
inspector shall notify an owner in writing by delivering a list of the
violations to an owner. The owner shall have thirty (30) days to correct such
violations. Alternatively, within seven (7) days of the notice, the owner may
request additional time to correct the conditions if such request includes a
plan and timetable acceptable to the building inspector. The building inspector
shall reinspect after the thirty (30) days or any agreed upon time has expired,
or sooner upon request of the owner.
      2.   If a rental dwelling is vacant at the time of an inspection, the
rental dwelling may not be occupied without the permission of the building
inspector. If no violations are found, said permission shall be granted
promptly.
   G.   Fees, Fines And Warning Signs:
      1.   There shall be no cost, fee or charge assessed by the city for
inspection of a rental dwelling pursuant to this section whereby no violations
are found. If violation(s) are found, the owner shall be subject to a
reinspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). However, should such violations not
be corrected by the time of the first reinspection, the owner shall be subject
to a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second reinspection and each
subsequent reinspection until such violations are corrected.
      2.   Any reinspection fees remaining unpaid after two (2) weeks shall be
a debt due and owing the city and, as such, may be collected in accordance with
applicable law.
      3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
      4.   Any owner failing to correct any conditions found to be in violation
under this chapter within the allotted time shall be subject to penalty under
the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation is a separate offense subject to penalty.
      5.   If a rental dwelling reveals any violations presenting an imminent
threat to human life, health and/or safety of actual or potential occupants,
the building inspector shall install a warning sign or signs on the rental
dwelling and/or on the property on which it is situated, one of which must be
viewable from the street. Said warning sign(s) shall be in a form approved by
the building inspector and at a minimum shall state that the rental dwelling is
uninhabitable by order of the building inspector. Such sign(s) shall not block
access to the property. The building inspector may remove debris or weeds,
install posts, or take other reasonable action to cause such sign(s) to be
viewable from the street.
      6.   Removal, obstruction or otherwise tampering with a warning sign by
anyone other than the building inspector or his agent shall be a violation of
this section.
      7.   Any acts of the city under this section shall not prevent the city
from exercising its rights under chapter 5, "Dangerous Buildings", of this
title. (Ord., 11-9-2010)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
(Rep. per correspondence dated 3-2-2001)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Creation Of Department
6-1-2: Office Of Chief Created
6-1-3: Duties Of Chief
6-1-4: Duties Of Members
6-1-5: Conduct Of Members
6-1-6: Probation Period; Rules And Regulations
6-1-7: Special Police
6-1-8: Custody Of Lost, Stolen Property
6-1-9: Intoxicating Beverages, Limitation On Use
6-1-1: CREATION OF DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created a police department, an executive department of the
city. The police department shall consist of the chief of police and such other
members as may be provided from time to time by the city council. (1967 Code §
8.001)
All police officers, other than those officers who shall be employed on a full
time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully complete any training
mandated by the Illinois law enforcement training and standards board.
A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities of a full time
police officer. Part time officers shall not work more than one thousand five
hundred sixty (1,560) hours in a twelve (12) month period beginning on January
1 of any calendar year. Part time officers shall not be assigned to supervise
or direct full time police officers and shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
Any person employed as a part time officer shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
   C.   Be of good moral character, of sound health, and physically and
mentally able to perform assigned duties.
   D.   Possess a valid Illinois driver's license.
   E.   Have no prior felony convictions.
   F.   Pass a complete medical examination conducted by a licensed physician.
   G.   Any individual with prior military service must have been honorably
discharged.
Part time officers shall serve under the jurisdiction of the chief of police in
all disciplinary matters. Part time officers may be removed from employment at
any time by the chief of police. Part time officers shall comply with all rules
and regulations of the police department as issued by the chief of police, upon
approval by the mayor and city council.
The aforesaid hiring standard, particularly with respect to part time police
officers employed by the city of Mt. Pulaski, Logan County, Illinois, shall be
submitted to the Illinois law enforcement training and standards board, as
required by statute. (Ord., 1-22-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
6-1-2: OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of the chief of police. The chief of police
shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city
council, and he shall be ex officio city marshal and superintendent of police.
The chief of police shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council
and be subject to removal at any time by the mayor, with the concurrence of a
majority vote of the city council. If not so removed, he shall hold office
until the expiration of the term of the mayor in office at the time of his
appointment as chief of police, and thereafter, until his successor is
appointed and qualified. (Ord., 10-25-1977)
6-1-3: DUTIES OF CHIEF:
   A.   The chief of police shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of his department as may be required by statute or
city council. The chief shall be responsible for the performance of the police
department in all of its functions, and all persons who are members of the
department shall serve subject to the orders of the chief of police. The chief
of police shall have sole responsibility and authority to hire and discharge
any employee of the police department. Upon discharging an officer, the chief
of police shall immediately inform the mayor and forward a written detailed
report within two (2) business days to the mayor and city council describing
such actions.
   B.   If the office of chief of police is vacant, or he/she is unable to
perform his/her duties, the city council police committee has the authority to
perform the administrative duties assigned to the chief until such vacancy is
filled either permanently or by temporary appointment, or when the chief of
police is able to continue his/her duties. (Ord., 7-14-2015)
6-1-4: DUTIES OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of the members of the police department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable
therein; and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law, and arrest
violators thereof. (1967 Code § 8.004)
6-1-5: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every member of the police department to conduct
himself in a proper and law abiding manner at all times, and to avoid the use
of unnecessary force. Each member of the department shall obey the orders and
directions of his superior. (1967 Code § 8.007)
6-1-6: PROBATION PERIOD; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All newly employed members of the police department shall serve a continuous
one year probation period, commencing with the date of employment, before
entering into regular contractual service with the city. The chief of police
may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the hours of duty,
vacations, uniforms and conduct of the members of the police department as he
shall deem advisable, and such rules, when approved by the mayor and council,
shall be binding on such members. (Ord., 10-25-1977)
6-1-7: SPECIAL POLICE:
Any person of good character having duties which require it, may be appointed a
special police officer by the chief of police; provided, that except upon
authorization by the city council, no such special police officer shall be
entitled to any compensation from the city, nor shall such special police
officer be considered an employee of the city by reason of such appointment.
Special police officers shall obey all rules of the police department
applicable thereto, and may be deprived of their appointment by the chief at
any time. (1967 Code § 8.010)
6-1-8: CUSTODY OF LOST, STOLEN PROPERTY:
The chief of police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or stolen
property in the city. Property is to be retained at the police department,
locked in a safe place to prevent theft and pilferage, and a record of such
property and disposition of same filed with the city clerk.
Abandoned or stolen property in possession of the chief of police in excess of
ninety (90) days, not properly identified or claimed, may be disposed of by
public sale and funds derived from such sale turned over to the city clerk.
(1967 Code § 8.011; amd. 1977 Code)
6-1-9: INTOXICATING BEVERAGES, LIMITATION ON USE:
No regular or probationary member of the police department shall partake of any
form of intoxicating beverage during the four (4) hours immediately preceding
the commencement of time of active duty. (Ord., 10-25-1977)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Advertisements
6-2-2: Assemblages
6-2-3: Bathing
6-2-4: Combustible Refuse; Depositing Refuse On Public Ways
6-2-5: Possession, Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages On Public Ways
6-2-6: Conduct In Liquor Establishments
6-2-7: Discharge Of Firearms
6-2-8: Injurious Materials On Thoroughfares
6-2-9: Injury To Public Property
6-2-10: Throwing Missiles
6-2-11: Noises
6-2-12: Posting Bills
6-2-13: Profanity
6-2-14: Articles On Window Ledges
6-2-15: Penalty
6-2-1: ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or article in
the city, and it shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement
or notice. (1967 Code § 28.012)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, by himself or his agents or
servants, to distribute, cast, throw or place, or cause to be distributed,
cast, thrown or placed, in, upon or along any of the streets, alleys or other
public places of the city, or upon the porches or yards of private residences
therein, or within any dwelling or building in the city any samples of
merchandise or medicinal preparations for the purpose or with the intent of
advertising or making known in a general or promiscuous manner any business,
occupation, proposition, medical treatment, medicine or other article
whatsoever. (1967 Code § 28.019)
6-2-2: ASSEMBLAGES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the city. (1967 Code § 28.008)
   B.   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of any
disorderly crowd, or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful purpose.
(1967 Code § 28.013)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or congregate upon the
streets, sidewalks or alleys of the city in the vicinity of any place of
worship, school, theater, hotel, store, factory or other public place to the
annoyance or disturbance of any person or persons. Any number of persons who
shall congregate upon such public places and shall refuse to disperse when
requested to do so by any member of the police force or by any person annoyed
thereby shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
6-2-15 of this chapter. (Ord., 9-14-2004; amd. 2010 Code)
6-2-3: BATHING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe at any public place or in any
place open to the public view unless such person is adequately garbed in a
bathing suit. (1967 Code § 28.016)
6-2-4: COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE; DEPOSITING REFUSE ON PUBLIC WAYS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way as
to create a fire hazard, or to store or throw refuse of any kind on any alley,
street or other public place in the city. (1967 Code § 28.010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-3-2 of this code.
6-2-5: POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess an alcoholic beverage,
with the seal broken on the container thereof, or consume an alcoholic beverage
on any public street, sidewalk, or alley or on any public grounds within the
corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a request is made to the city
council, and the city council approves the specific times, date and location
boundaries for a specific onetime event lasting no longer than two (2)
consecutive days, it shall be lawful for a person to possess an alcoholic
beverage, with the seal broken on the container thereof, or consume an
alcoholic beverage, on the designated public street, sidewalk, or alley or
public grounds within the corporate limits of the city during the authorized
times and dates, subject to issuance of a permit or license by the liquor
commissioner. (Ord., 6-9-2015)
6-2-6: CONDUCT IN LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS:
No licensee or other person in charge of a premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic liquor shall permit the use or utterance of obscene or profane
language at said premises or any act creating a disturbance without protest;
and if the protest goes unheeded, such person in charge shall forthwith notify
the police department and request assistance, if necessary, to eject the
offender. Any person who shall so use obscene or profane language or who shall
create any disturbance, as aforesaid, in or on said premises shall be deemed
guilty of violating this section. (1977 Code)
6-2-7: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or air gun in the city;
provided, that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor any
citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his person or
property. (1967 Code § 28.015)
6-2-8: INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON THOROUGHFARES:
It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, nails, tacks or other
articles on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the city.
(1967 Code § 28.026)
6-2-9: INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to injure, deface or interfere with any
property belonging to the city without proper authority from the city council.
(1967 Code § 10.703; amd. 1977 Code; 2010 Code)
6-2-10: THROWING MISSILES:
It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any street, alley
or public place. (1967 Code § 28.011; amd. 2010 Code)
6-2-11: NOISES 1 :
It shall be unlawful to do any of the following acts:
   A.   To make or cause to be made any noise or sounds of such volume or of
such a nature as to cause annoyance to residents of the city.
   B.   To disturb the peace by the making of any unnecessary noise.
   C.   To operate any pneumatic hammer, grinding or crushing machinery, mixing
or loading machine, or any other machinery, equipment or device in the city
which makes or causes a noise in violation of any of the provisions of this
section. (1967 Code § 28.028)
   D.   To permit live entertainment and/or live music in any business
establishment within the corporate limits of the city after twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight, except where special permission is given by the mayor, subject to
approval by the city council 2 . (Ord., 6-11-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 6 of this code for sound amplifier regulations.
2 1. See also section
  3-2A-4 of this code.
6-2-12: POSTING BILLS:
It shall be unlawful to post any bills or advertisements on any public property
without the authority of the city council, and it shall be unlawful to post any
bill or advertisement on any property without the written consent of the owner
thereof. (1967 Code § 28.017)
6-2-13: PROFANITY:
It shall be unlawful to use any profanity in any street, alley or other public
place in the city. (1967 Code § 28.003)
6-2-14: ARTICLES ON WINDOW LEDGES:
It shall be unlawful to place any movable articles on any window ledge or other
place abutting a public street, alley or other place at a height above four
feet (4') from the ground in such a manner that the same can be or is in danger
of falling onto such street, alley, sidewalk or other public place. (1967 Code
§ 28.022)
6-2-15: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which violation occurs or continues. (Ord.,
7-9-1991; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Cruelty
6-3-2: Prohibited Animals
6-3-3: Noises
6-3-4: Diseased Animals
6-3-5: Housing
6-3-6: Penalty
6-3-1: CRUELTY:
No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city in any way. Any person who
inhumanely beats, overloads, underfeeds or abandons any animal shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of this section. (1967 Code § 26.101)
Each owner shall provide for each animal a sufficient quantity of food and
water, and adequate protection from the weather. (Ord., 9-9-2008)
6-3-2: PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, use, keep or permit to be
at large within the city limits any of the following animals: bees, horses,
cattle, sheep, goats, ponies, mules, pigs, swine, hogs, ducks, geese, minks,
skunks, foxes, chinchillas or any other livestock or poultry or any wild or
vicious animal dangerous to human beings. Rabbits shall be permitted up to five
(5) per household and shall not be raised for human consumption. Chickens shall
be permitted up to five (5) per household. Roosters are prohibited. All
chickens shall be kept within a pen, coop, building or other enclosure
sufficient in size and strength to confine such animals to the owner's property
and protect them from weather and cold. These enclosures must have a minimum of
four (4) square feet per chicken with a one hundred (100) square foot maximum
size, shall not be erected or maintained within fifteen feet (15') of any
occupied residence other than that of the owner and be kept clean. (Ord., 7-14-
2015)
Section
6-3-6 of this chapter and section
7-1-2 of this code shall apply to foul odor and housing conditions regarding
rabbits. (Ord., 5-25-2010)
   B.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any
kind to run at large in the city. Exhibitions or parades of animals which are
ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the city council.
   C.   The members of the police department or any other persons in the city
are authorized to kill any dangerous animal when it is necessary for the
protection of any person or property. (Ord., 5-11-2004)
6-3-3: NOISES:
No person shall, in the city, keep or harbor any dog, cat, or other animal
which, by barking, howling, bawling, or by other noises, shall disturb the
peace and quiet of any family, individual or neighborhood; and every person
violating this section shall forfeit and pay to the city, within seventy two
(72) hours of the date of the ticket charging such alleged offense, not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense and not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each subsequent offense alleged to have occurred within a
twelve (12) month period. Payment of the fine above shall be made at the police
station or at the city hall and a receipt issued for the money so received, and
said money shall be promptly turned over to the city treasurer. If not paid as
above, a written complaint for a violation of this section shall be obtained
and issued through the city attorney and served by certified mail on the person
or persons charged with the offense along with a notice to appear to answer
said charge. Any person found guilty by a court of law or jury of violating the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalty provisions of
section
6-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord., 9-10-1996; amd. 2010 Code)
6-3-4: DISEASED ANIMALS:
No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious disease or an infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large or be exposed in any public place whereby the
health of man or beast may be affected, nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof except under the
supervision of the county health officer. (1967 Code § 26.106; amd. 1977 Code;
2010 Code)
It is hereby made the duty of the chief of police to secure such disposition of
any diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises as to prevent the
communication or spread of contagion or infection, except in cases where the
state veterinarian is empowered to act. (1967 Code § 26.106; amd. 1977 Code)
6-3-5: HOUSING:
No person shall allow any place where any animal is or may be kept to become
unclean or unwholesome. (1967 Code § 26.107; amd. 1977 Code; 2010 Code)
6-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 4
DOGS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Running At Large/Intimidation
6-4-2: Registration Required
6-4-3: Registration Fee
6-4-4: Rabies Inoculation
6-4-5: Restraint
6-4-6: Impoundment And Disposition
6-4-7: Dog Bite
6-4-8: Penalties
6-4-1: RUNNING AT LARGE/INTIMIDATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the city.
Any dog found upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, parkway, or any
unenclosed place without being held securely on a leash, or in an enclosed
vehicle, shall be deemed to be running at large.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large on the private
property of anyone but the owner or lessee thereof without the permission of an
owner or lessee of said property.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to allow any dog to chase, attack, bite, interfere
with or physically intimidate any person or other animal while on or off of the
premises of the owner.
   D.   Any such dog in violation of this section may be impounded and dealt
with as provided in section
6-4-6 of this chapter and, in such case, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of section
6-4-8 of this chapter. (Ord., 6-26-2012)
6-4-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of every person owning, keeping or harboring any dog in
the city to register the same with the rabies and animal control officer of
Logan County. (1967 Code § 26.201)
6-4-3: REGISTRATION FEE:
The fee for registration shall be as stipulated by Logan County ordinance.
(1967 Code § 26.202)
6-4-4: RABIES INOCULATION:
It shall be the duty of the owner or person in custody of any dog kept in the
city to have the dog inoculated against rabies at least once each year. The dog
owner or custodian shall obtain and keep as a matter of record and shall
exhibit or show to any officer of the city a certificate by a veterinarian
showing compliance with this section. (1967 Code § 26.203)
6-4-5: RESTRAINT:
It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to go upon any public street, alley or
sidewalk or other public place unless such dog is on a chain or leash. (1967
Code § 26.204; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION:
Animals found running at large shall be taken into custody and shall be
impounded at a pound location as determined and specified by county ordinance.
Disposal of animals impounded will be in accordance with county ordinance.
(1967 Code § 26.206; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4-7: DOG BITE:
Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner of said dog shall immediately notify
the chief of police who shall order the dog to be held on the owner's premises
or shall have it impounded for a period of ten (10) days. The dog shall be
examined immediately after it has bitten anyone and again at the end of the ten
(10) day period.
If, at the end of this ten (10) day period, a veterinarian is convinced that
the dog is free from rabies, he shall order the dog released from quarantine or
the pound as the case may be. (Ord., 5-28-1974)
6-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating subsection
6-4-1C of this chapter shall be subject to the penalty provisions of
subsections B, C and D of this section. Any person violating any other section
of this chapter shall be subject to the penalty provisions of subsections A, C
and D of this section.
   A.   The sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00) for the first violation and
fifty dollars ($50.00) for the second and subsequent violations of the violator
in any one year period.
   B.   The sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first violation, three
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for the second violation, and five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the third and subsequent violations of the violator in
any two (2) year period.
   C.   Said fines shall be paid to the city within seventy two (72) hours of
the date of the ticket charging such alleged offense at the police station or
at the city hall. A receipt shall be issued for all monies so received, and
said monies shall be promptly turned over to the city treasurer.
   D.   If the above fine is not paid within seventy two (72) hours of the date
of the ticket charging such offense, a written complaint for a violation of
this chapter shall be obtained and issued through the city attorney and served
by certified mail, or by personal or abode service by the sheriff, on the
person or persons charged with the offense along with a notice to appear to
answer said charge. Any person found guilty in a court of law of violating any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty under the provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 6-26-2012)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Curfew
6-5-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CURFEW HOURS:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN:
      1.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or  stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act 1 .
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Violation; Penalties: A person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00); except, that neither a person who has been made a ward of the court
under the juvenile court act of 1987 2 , nor that person's legal guardian,
shall be subject to any fine. In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by
this section, the court may order a parent, legal guardian, or other person
convicted of a violation of subsection B of this section to perform community
service as determined by the court; except, that the legal guardian of a person
who has been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court act of 1987 may
not be ordered to perform community service. The dates and times established
for the performance of community service by the parent, legal guardian, or
other person convicted of a violation of subsection B of this section shall not
conflict with the dates and times that the person is employed in his or her
regular occupation. (2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 2. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED, WRECKED, NUISANCE VEHICLES
ARTICLE A.  ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-6A-1: Definitions
6-6A-2: Abandonment Prohibited
6-6A-3: Notify Police Department
6-6A-4: Removal
6-6A-5: Records Kept
6-6A-6: Owner Unknown
6-6A-7: Notify State Police
6-6A-8: Reclamation Of Vehicle
6-6A-9: Notice Of Sale
6-6A-10: Sale Without Notice; Disposition
6-6A-11: Report Maintained
6-6A-12: Proceeds Of Sale
6-6A-13: Nonliability Of Police And Towing Service
6-6A-14: Exemptions From Provisions
6-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any motor
vehicle or other vehicle that has not been used for seven (7) consecutive days
or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years of
age or older.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley or public way within the city. (1977 Code; amd.
Ord., 10-14-1997)
6-6A-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on any
highway in the city is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth in this
code. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in the city is unlawful except on property of the owner or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or
upon the order of the chief of police, after a waiting period of seven (7) days
or more has expired. (1977 Code)
6-6A-3: NOTIFY POLICE DEPARTMENT:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the city, not the
owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the city police
department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the city. Upon
receipt of such notification, the chief of police shall authorize a towing
service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or
unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service will safely keep
the towed vehicle and its contents and maintain a record of the tow until the
vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to
possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this article.
(1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
6-6A-4: REMOVAL:
   A.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
city ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized
by order of the chief of police.
   B.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the chief of the police department.
   C.   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the chief of police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs. (1977 Code)
6-6A-5: RECORDS KEPT:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed, the police
department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the
color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series
name, body style, vehicle identification number and license plate year and
number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and
hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the
name of the officer authorizing the tow. (1977 Code)
6-6A-6: OWNER UNKNOWN:
When the city police department does not know the identity of the registered
owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor vehicle
registration records of the state of Illinois to be searched by a directed
communication to the secretary of state for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
The police department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the Illinois
state police to be searched by a directed communication to the Illinois state
police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the Illinois state
police files are searched with negative results, the information contained in
the national crime information center (NCIC) files will be searched by the
Illinois state police. The information determined from these record searches
will be used by the police department in sending a notification by certified
mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is
held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information. (1977 Code)
6-6A-7: NOTIFY STATE POLICE:
When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of
a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the police department shall notify the Illinois state police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois
state police will be immediately forwarded to the city police department for
notification of the owner. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
6-6A-8: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE:
Anytime before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the police department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid. (1977 Code)
6-6A-9: NOTICE OF SALE:
Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of thirty
(30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the police department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to
the sale, the police department shall cause a notice of the time and place of
the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person
known by the police department or towing service to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle.
In those instances where the certified notification specified herein has been
returned by the postal authorities to the police department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required. (1977 Code)
6-6A-10: SALE WITHOUT NOTICE; DISPOSITION:
When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years of
age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided in this article, the
vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the manner authorized
by this article without notice to the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is impounded as
specified by this article, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10)
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition, and an examination of the Illinois state police stolen motor
vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten
(10) day period, without the benefit of disposition being received from the
registered owner, the chief of police will authorize the disposal of the
vehicle as junk only. (1977 Code)
6-6A-11: REPORT MAINTAINED:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the police department
is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when
the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
article, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the police
department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(1977 Code)
6-6A-12: PROCEEDS OF SALE:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the city is authorized to
be towed away by the chief of police and disposed of as set forth in this
article, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the deduction of
towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the municipal
treasury. (1977 Code)
6-6A-13: NONLIABILITY OF POLICE AND TOWING SERVICE:
Any police officer or towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages brought by the registered owner, former
registered owner or his legal representatives, or any other person legally
entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle
was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this article. (1977 Code)
6-6A-14: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is excluded
from this article. (1977 Code)
ARTICLE B.  NUISANCE VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-6B-1: Definitions
6-6B-2: Nuisance Declared
6-6B-3: Removal; Notice
6-6B-4: Abatement
6-6B-5: Lien; Foreclosure
6-6B-6: Penalty
6-6B-1: DEFINITIONS:
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power. The term "inoperable motor vehicle" also includes any motor
vehicle that is unlicensed or unregistered or bears expired, suspended, or
revoked registration such to render the operation of the same illegal under the
laws of the state of Illinois or the ordinances of the city of Mt. Pulaski. The
term "inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair work. This article also does not
apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, to
operable historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age, or to a motor
vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or
junking of motor vehicles.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle 1 . Trailers must display current and legal registration. Wheels
and other parts cannot be altered, disassembled, damaged or otherwise so
treated as to render it inoperable.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway 2 . Travel trailers
must display current and legal registration. Wheels and other parts cannot be
altered, disassembled, damaged or otherwise so treated as to render it
inoperable. (Ord., 4-9-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-209.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-210.01.
6-6B-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
An inoperable motor vehicle, travel trailer or trailer on public or private
property, and in view of the general public, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. No person in charge or in control of the premises, whether as an
owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow an "inoperable motor
vehicle", "travel trailer", or "trailer" as defined in section
6-6B-1 of this article, to remain on his property for more than seven (7) days.
A "travel trailer" or "trailer", as defined above, whether on public or private
property, and in view of the general public, lacking current, legal
registration is hereby declared to be a nuisance. At no time shall any vehicle,
travel trailer or trailer of any type, undergo a disassembly of parts, commonly
called stripping, or a major overhaul, including bodywork, outside of an
enclosed structure where a vehicle, travel trailer or trailer would be in
violation of this article. Any person in charge or in control of the premises,
whether as an owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall be subject to
a fine pursuant to section
1-4-1, "General Penalty", of this code for failure to abate the nuisance(s) as
declared by the city code official. The owner or person in possession or
control of an inoperable motor vehicle, travel trailer or trailer, upon being
served a notice to abate the nuisance vehicle, shall not move the vehicle,
travel trailer or trailer to another location within the city limits where the
vehicle would be in violation of this article. (Ord., 4-9-2013)
6-6B-3: REMOVAL; NOTICE:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or person in possession or control of an inoperable motor
vehicle, travel trailer or trailer, or parts thereof in violation of the
provisions of this article, and to demand that such vehicle or parts thereof be
disposed of and to abate the nuisance within seven (7) days from the issuance
of the notice. (Ord., 4-9-2013)
6-6B-4: ABATEMENT:
If the person in possession or control of the property cannot be located so as
to serve a notice of violation as provided in section
6-6B-3 of this article the city may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an
account of the expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and
paid by such owner or person in possession or control of said inoperable motor
vehicle, travel trailer or trailer, or parts thereof. If the person so served
with the notice of violation as provided in section
6-6B-3 of this article does not abate within seven (7) days of the issuance of
said notice, the matter shall be forwarded to the city attorney for prosecution
in circuit court. (Ord., 4-9-2013)
6-6B-5: LIEN; FORECLOSURE:
   A.   Charges for the removal and disposition of the inoperable motor vehicle
or parts thereof shall be a lien upon such vehicle or parts thereof. Whenever a
bill for charges remains unpaid for sixty (60) days after it has been incurred,
the city may file with the county recorder a statement of lien claim. This
statement shall contain a description of the vehicle or parts, the expense and
costs incurred, the date such expense was incurred, and a notice that the city
claims a lien for this amount.
Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner or person in possession
or control of said vehicle if his address is known; provided, however, that
failure of the clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such notice, or
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for such charges as provided in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   The inoperable motor vehicle subject to lien for unpaid charges shall
be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges after deducting all costs and expenses incurred in
such foreclosure action, as in the case of foreclosure of statutory liens. Such
foreclosure action shall be filed in the circuit court of Logan County in the
name of the city at any time after sixty (60) days from the date said charges
became due. (Ord., 4-26-1988)
6-6B-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to
fine under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which such nuisance continues unabated after
seven (7) days of the issuance of the initial notice from the chief of police
to remove or dispose of said inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof. (Ord.,
4-26-1988)
CHAPTER 7
TRESPASSES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose
6-7-2: Trespasses Prohibited
6-7-3: Specifically Enumerated Trespasses; Suppression
6-7-4: Penalty
6-7-1: PURPOSE:
Complaints have been received by the police department and the mayor and city
council of trespasses having been committed upon public and private property
within the corporate limits of the city in violation of the rights of the
public and private owners of said property; and the city council deems it
necessary to invoke the police powers for the protection of the public and
private owners of property within the corporate limits of the city and, for
that purpose, to provide regulations which will tend to prevent them; and the
city council declares that the regulations established by this chapter are
necessary for the safety, comfort, good order and welfare of the residents of
the city who desire the protection of the enforcement of the regulations
established by and through their cooperation. (Ord., 1-22-1980; amd. 2010 Code)
6-7-2: TRESPASSES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit a trespass
within the city upon either public or private property. (Ord., 1-22-1980)
6-7-3: SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED TRESPASSES; SUPPRESSION:
Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of section
6-7-2 of this chapter, any of the following acts by any person, firm or
corporation shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in
violation of the provisions of said section
6-7-2, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this chapter,
the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
   A.   Any entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
   B.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
   C.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   D.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord., 1-22-1980)
6-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not exceeding that
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 1-22-1980; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of Health And Food Regulations
7-1-2: Penalty
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF HEALTH AND FOOD REGULATIONS:
The regulations of the Logan County department of health, together with all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted as the regulations governing health and
food handling in the city. Copies of such regulations shall be kept on file in
the office of the city clerk for inspection. (1977 Code)
7-1-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
7-2-1: License Required; Fee
7-2-2: Limitation On Number Of Licenses
7-2-3: Application For License
7-2-4: Vehicles To Be Covered; Sunday Operation Prohibited
7-2-5: Disposal And Storage Of Refuse
7-2-6: Penalty
7-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of scavenger or
the collection or disposal of animal, human or vegetable refuse or offal
without having first obtained a license therefor. The annual fee for such
license shall be ten dollars ($10.00). (1967 Code § 23.301; amd. 2010 Code)
7-2-2: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES:
No more than two (2) such licenses shall be in force in the city at any one
time. (1967 Code § 23.302; amd. 1977 Code)
7-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the city clerk and shall be
referred by him to the city council. No such license shall be issued except on
order of the city council. (1967 Code § 23.303; amd. 2010 Code)
7-2-4: VEHICLES TO BE COVERED; SUNDAY OPERATION PROHIBITED:
Any vehicle used by a scavenger in his business shall be watertight and
equipped with airtight covers for such portions as are used for transportation
of refuse. It shall be unlawful for any such vehicle to be driven over or
through any street in the city during or on a Sunday. (1967 Code § 23.304)
7-2-5: DISPOSAL AND STORAGE OF REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to dispose or to store any refuse in any
place within the city limits or within one mile thereof excepting with the
permission of the city council. (1967 Code § 23.305)
7-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Receptacle Required; Specifications
7-3-2: Deposits In Public Ways
7-3-3: Deposit At Sewer Pond
7-3-4: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 8 of this title for fee and billings.
7-3-1: RECEPTACLE REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be the duty of every owner or his agent or occupant of any house,
building, flat or apartment or tenement in the city where people reside, board
or lodge or where animal or vegetable matter is prepared or served, and at all
times, to maintain in good order and repair a can for garbage, tin cans,
bottles, ashes and all other refuse. (1967 Code § 25.201)
The can for garbage shall be watertight and made of metal with a close fitting
cover, and shall have a capacity of not less than ten (10) gallons nor more
than thirty (30) gallons, and shall be provided with suitable handles. (1967
Code § 25.202; amd. 1977 Code)
7-3-2: DEPOSITS IN PUBLIC WAYS 1 :
No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be deposited in any street, alley or
public way, excepting as is provided in this chapter, and no such refuse shall
be so placed that it can be blown about or scattered by the wind. (1967 Code §
25.203)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  6-2-4 of this code.
7-3-3: DEPOSIT AT SEWER POND:
   A.   Prohibited: No garbage or refuse of any kind, with the exception of
landscape waste (as posted), may be dumped at the city sewer pond. (Ord., 6-12-
2001)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to a seven
hundred fifty dollar ($750.00) fine for the first offense. The penalty shall
increase by seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each subsequent
violation. (Ord., 6-12-2001; amd. 2010 Code)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Nuisance Declared
7-4-2: Height
7-4-3: Barberry Bushes
7-4-4: Notice To Abate
7-4-5: Abatement By City
7-4-6: Lien; Foreclosure
7-4-7: Penalty
7-4-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weeds, such as marijuana, jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or
other weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the
City are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit
any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place. (1967 Code § 27.301; amd.
1977 Code)
7-4-2: HEIGHT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a
height exceeding an average of eight inches (8") anywhere in the City. Any such
plants, grass or weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of each owner, tenant or person residing
on property to sustain and maintain the boulevard strip adjacent to the
property and not permit any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes,
flowers or other ornamental plants not in conflict with other sections of this
chapter, to grow to a height exceeding an average of eight inches (8") anywhere
in the City. Any such plants, grass or weeds exceeding such height are hereby
declared a nuisance. Boulevard strip for the purpose of this section shall be
defined as the area between the property line and the street, commonly covered
in grass.
This responsibility shall confer no rights on the property owner, tenant or
person on the property, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
compromise, in any manner, the absolute right of the City to use any City
boulevard strip as it deems advisable with or without notice to the adjacent
property owner, tenant or person residing on the property. (Ord., 6-14-2016)
7-4-3: BARBERRY BUSHES:
It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of the bush
of the species of tall, common or European barberry, further known as Berberis
vulgaris, or its horticultural varieties within the City. (1967 Code § 27.303)
7-4-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds, grass or
plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter and
to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days. (1967 Code §
27.304)
7-4-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days, the
City may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of
the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant. (1967 Code § 27.305)
7-4-6: LIEN; FORECLOSURE:
   A.   Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for sixty (60) days after it
has been rendered, the Clerk may file with the County Recorder a statement of
lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of the premises,
the expense and costs incurred and the date the weeds were cut, and a notice
that the City claims a lien for this amount.
Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his
address is known.
Provided, however, that failure of the Clerk to record such lien claim or to
mail such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for such charges as provided in
subsection B of this section. (1967 Code § 27.306)
   B.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
to pay the charges, deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the City.
The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the City, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter, against any property for which such bill remains unpaid sixty (60)
days after it has been rendered. (1967 Code § 27.307)
7-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which such nuisance continues unabated after
ten (10) days from receipt of notice. (1967 Code § 27.308; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Required Use Of Public Sewers
7-5-3: Private Sewage Disposal
7-5-4: Building Sewers And Connections
7-5-5: Use Of Public Sewers
7-5-6: Protection Of Sewage Works
7-5-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
7-5-8: Penalties
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the content specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter and chapter 6 of this title shall be as follows:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CITY: The city of Mt. Pulaski, county of Logan, state of Illinois.
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
DIRECTOR: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
FEDERAL ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.), as
amended by the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972 (Pub.L.
92-500 and Pub.L. 93-243).
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by "Title II - Grants For
Construction Of Treatment Works" of the act and implementing regulations.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of "floatable oil" if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972", office of
management and budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
Division A - agriculture, forestry and fishing.
Division B - mining.
Division D - manufacturing.
Division E - transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary
services.
Division I - services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by the
superintendent that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary convenience.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
recovery or processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary
sewage.
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average workday; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its waste a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under section
307(a) of the federal act; or d) is found by the permit issuance authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analyses.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator, or where appropriated by the director, after enactment of the
federal water pollution control amendment of 1972, to regulate the discharge of
pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the federal act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in standard methods.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing two-tenths (0.2) pound of
BOD and two- tenths (0.2) pound of suspended solids.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
The term shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary (or
combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL OR NONINDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user as
provided in this section.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which stormwater, surface water and groundwater
or unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SELF-RECOVERY SYSTEM: Any process which does not discharge wastewaters to the
city sewerage system.
SEWAGE: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater", published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
STATE ACT: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970 1 .
STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by the Illinois anti-pollution bond
act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries stormwater, surface water and groundwater
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the water and sewer department and shall
be the approving authority on behalf of the city.
SURCHARGE: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt service
charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than the concentration values established in section
7-6-1 of this title.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of "suspended solids"
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in standard methods.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be twenty (20) years from the date
of start up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
USER CLASS: The type of user, either residential or commercial (nonindustrial)
or industrial, as defined in this section.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per monthly period levied on all users of
the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in
section
7-6-1 of this title, and shall consist of the basic user charge and a
surcharge, if applicable.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge; sometimes used synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord., 11-13-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
7-5-2: REQUIRED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
city is hereby required, at his expense, to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days
after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is
within two hundred feet (200') (60.96 meters) of the property line. (Ord., 11-
13-1979)
7-5-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of subsection
7-5-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city clerk.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the city council. A permit and inspection
fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within seventy
two (72) hours of the receipt of written notice by the superintendent.
   D.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state of Illinois private
sewage disposal licensing act and code 1  and with the state of Illinois
environmental protection agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet (1,858
square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to
any natural outlet.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
7-5-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   F.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
   G.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Logan County health
department. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
   H.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within ninety (90) days, and the private sewage
disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean, bank run
gravel or dirt. (Ord., 11-13-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
7-5-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
   B.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
   C.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential and commercial service; and 2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the city at the time the application is filed. The industry, as a
condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
   D.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
   E.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
The owner of any property shall be responsible to bear all costs and expenses
in maintaining the individual sewer to the connection to the city sewer line.
The owner shall not make, or cause to be made, any excavation or repairs to the
sewer line on city property in connection with any repairs undertaken by the
owner on the owner's service sewer line, and the city shall not be responsible
for the expense incurred by the owner pertaining to the city sewer line portion
of such repairs in the absence of a prior agreement between the owner and the
city. (Ord., 7-23-1991)
   F.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except, that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   G.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   H.   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual Of Practice No. 9" and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois" shall apply.
   I.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved in accordance with subsection B of this section, and discharged to the
building sewer.
   J.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   K.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, "Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual Of Practice No. 9" and "Standard
Specifications For Water Qnd Sewer Main Construction In Illinois". All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent
before installation.
   L.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent or his representative.
   M.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   N.   The building sewer used to connect single-family dwellings shall have a
minimum diameter of four inches (4"), and the building sewer used to connect
multiple-family dwellings and commercial buildings with the public sanitary
sewer shall have a minimum diameter of six inches (6"), and shall be laid on a
uniform grade of not less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot. All jointing
material and the methods for sealing joints shall meet the approval of the
superintendent. All service sewer pipe shall be laid in a straight line
whenever possible, and where deflection from a straight line of more than one
inch (1") per foot is necessary, curved pipe shall be used. All new building
sewers shall be constructed of one of the following types of materials:
      1.   Vitrified clay sewer pipe and fittings - extra strength clay pipe -
ASTM designation C-700, latest edition, with factory applied coupling meeting
ASTM specification C-425, latest edition, type I or II.
      2.   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) sewer pipe and fittings which comply with
ASTM specification D-3034, latest edition.
      3.   Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) sewer pipe and fittings which
comply with ASTM specification D-2751, latest edition.
   O.   Any person or firm engaged in construction and/or connection of a
building sewer to the public sewer shall be licensed by the city. A surety bond
will be required of the license holder indemnifying the city against any loss
or damage resulting from the work performed by the licensee. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-5-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted processing waters may be discharged, upon approval of the
superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works.
   D.   No industrial user may discharge sewage to any public sewer until the
city has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
      1.   Meets the requirements of section 204(b)(1)(B) of the federal water
pollution control act amendments of 1972 and applicable federal regulations;
and
      2.   Has been approved by the agency in accordance with the conditions of
any grant made to the city by the United States environmental protection agency
or by the state for the construction of any part of the sewer system or sewage
treatment works of the city.
   E.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb or public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0 and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval by the superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5.
(Ord., 11-13-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligram
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligram per liter at any time
except as permitted by the superintendent in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such
as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements, in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in section
7-5-1 of this chapter.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   F.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in this section, and/or which are in violation of
the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA rules and
regulations, subchapter D, water programs part 128 - pretreatment standards,
federal register volume 38, no. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973, and any
amendment thereto, and which, in the judgment of the superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection K of this section.
If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   G.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   H.   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   I.   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when
required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall
be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   J.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type and frequency of laboratory
analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but
no less than once per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with
federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the
results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and
in such manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of
all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   K.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined by the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs
are determined from periodic grab samples.
   L.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance
with chapter 6 of this title, by the industrial concern, provided such payments
are in accordance with federal and state guidelines of user charge system and
industrial cost recovery system. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-5-6: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord., 11-13-
1979)
7-5-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city, the
Illinois environmental protection agency and the U.S. environmental protection
agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the city, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the
U.S. environmental protection agency shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and the city shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees
and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in subsection
7-5-5I of this chapter.
   C.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-5-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
section
7-5-6, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit
for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this
chapter. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each
day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord., 11-13-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the city by reason of such violation. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
CHAPTER 6
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Basis For Wastewater Service Charges
7-6-2: Measurement Of Flow
7-6-3: Basic User Rate
7-6-4: Surcharge Rate
7-6-5: Computation Of Surcharge
7-6-6: Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge
7-6-7: Bills
7-6-8: Delinquent Water, Sewer And Solid Waste Bills
7-6-9: Lien; Notice Of Delinquency
7-6-10: Foreclosure Of Lien
7-6-11: Revenues
7-6-12: Accounts
7-6-13: Notice Of Rates
7-6-14: Penalty
7-6-15: Access To Records
7-6-1: BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge
for operation, maintenance and replacement, and a surcharge if applicable.
   B.   1. The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewer meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/l).
      2.   The basic user charge shall cover operation, maintenance and
replacement costs and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories. The projected annual revenue shall also include the
principal and interest payment hereafter becoming due and payable from one-
half (1/2) of the outstanding sewer revenue bonds.
         b.   Compute costs per gallon for normal sewage strength.
         c.   Compute surcharge costs per gallon per milligrams per liter in
excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   C.   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
concentrations for BOD, two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l), and SS,
two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l). The surcharge will be based
on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes
which exceed the two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and two hundred
fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) concentrations for BOD and SS,
respectively. Section
7-6-5 of this chapter specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
   D.   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the city in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs
including replacement costs. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-6-2: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
   A.   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increment of one
hundred (100) gallons.
   B.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained
from these other sources.
   C.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by
the superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered consumption records.
   D.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the superintendent. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-6-3: BASIC USER RATE:
   A.   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a
basic user rate for the use of and for services supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the city.
   B.   A minimum charge per month shall be applied to all users for water
consumption that does not exceed one thousand (1,000) gallons per month.
   C.   A basic user rate per gallon shall be applied to all users for water
consumption in excess of one thousand (1,000) gallons per month.
   D.   A prepaid tap fee, plus the cost of materials, plus the cost of any
contract labor, shall be charged by the city to connect to the city sewer
system. The property owner shall be responsible for connecting the premises to
the city sewer main. The connections shall be inspected and approved by the
superintendent of sewers.
   E.   The set rates, fees and charges referenced in this section shall be
established from time to time by the city council. Said rates and fees shall be
kept in a book or electronic record by the city collector for dissemination
upon request. (Ord., 8-12-2014)
7-6-4: SURCHARGE RATE:
The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be established from time to time
by the city council. Said rate shall be kept in a book or electronic record by
the city collector for dissemination upon request. (Ord., 8-12-2014)
7-6-5: COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE:
The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be established
by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as may be deemed
necessary by the superintendent and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
(Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-6-6: COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
CW = CM + (Vu-X)Cu + CS
Where:
 
CW = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period.
CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement.
Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period.
X  = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge.
Cu = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement.
CS = Amount of surcharge.
 
(Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-6-7: BILLS:
   A.   Rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly depending on the
classification of service for which bills are rendered. (Ord., 4-13-2004, eff.
7-2004)
   B.   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
   C.   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the city clerk or the city
collector on the fifteenth day of the month for the period for which the
service is billed.
All sewer bills are due and payable fourteen (14) days after being sent out. A
late payment penalty of ten percent (10%) of the balance shall be added to all
bills not paid by the fourteenth day after the billing date. (Ord., 4-13-2004,
eff. 7-2004; amd. 2010 Code)
7-6-8: DELINQUENT WATER, SEWER AND SOLID WASTE BILLS:
A bill for wastewater service charges under this chapter and a bill for water
service charges under title 8, chapter 8 of this code, and solid waste fee
charges under chapter 8 of this title, any of which remains unpaid for fourteen
(14) days after the date it is rendered, shall be declared delinquent. The city
collector shall apply payments of said bills in the following order if such
payment does not fully satisfy the amount due: wastewater service charges,
solid waste management fee, and water service charges. The city collector shall
send a written notice of delinquency to the customer within ten (10) days after
the expiration of said fourteen (14) day period in accordance with the
following procedure: (Ord., 4-13-2004, eff. 7-2004; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Such notice shall set forth the amount of the delinquency and advise
the customer of the date that shutoff will occur; except, that ten (10) days'
notice will be given prior to shutoff. Written notice shall also notify
customer of his right to contest the amount claimed to be due and to request a
hearing. (Ord., 6-9-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Upon request for such a hearing being made, the city collector shall
advise the customer of the time and place where the hearing will be held, the
hearing to be conducted by an employee of the city water and sewer department
no less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after such request is
received in the city collector's office. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
   C.   The hearing officer shall hear whatever testimony is deemed necessary
for a disposition of the matter, and the officer shall thereupon submit his
findings of fact and decision in writing and file the original report with the
city collector, and an exact copy shall be given to the customer. If the
decision of the hearing officer is adverse to the customer, the bill for
wastewater service charges, water service, and solid waste management service
found to be due the city shall be paid by the customer within thirty (30) days
after receipt of said decision. If not so paid, the water supply shall be shut
off from the premises of said customer, and shall not be restored until payment
in full of the unpaid bill, plus an additional forty dollar ($40.00) service
charge. (Ord., 4-13-2004, eff. 7-2004)
   D.   Notice of the above hearing and the decision thereof shall be served
upon the customer by registered or certified mail with a return receipt signed
by the customer.
   E.   The foregoing procedure shall also be followed in substantially the
manner set forth above in cases where a user or customer who is not delinquent
nevertheless makes a complaint or inquiry concerning his bill for wastewater
service charges, water service charges, and/or solid waste management charges.
(Ord., 6-9-1998)
   F.   Checks which are returned to city hall or one of the local banks due to
insufficient funds will be considered as nonpayment, and a fee of ten dollars
($10.00) will be included. A cash payment must be made as payment for the bad
check and fee. (Ord., 4-13-2004, eff. 7-2004)
7-6-9: LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for forty five (45)
days for monthly service after it has been rendered, the city clerk shall file
with the county recorder of deeds, a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain the legal description of the premises serviced, the amount of the
unpaid bill and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as
for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   B.   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the city clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises, if his address be known to the city clerk, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for a period of forty five (45) days for a monthly bill after it has
been rendered. (Ord., 4-13-2004, eff. 7-2004)
   C.   The failure of the city clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in subsection B of
this section. (Ord., 3-25-1986)
7-6-10: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment of
the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the city. The city
attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the
name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property for which the bill has remained unpaid for forty five (45) days after
it has been rendered. (Ord., 3-25-1986)
7-6-11: REVENUES:
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage fund of the city. All such revenues
and monies shall be held by the city clerk separate and apart from his private
funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the city, and all of said
sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the city not more
than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may from time to time be directed by the mayor and city council.
   B.   The city clerk shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage system
and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as the
same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the fund
designated as the "sewerage fund of the city". The city clerk shall administer
such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the "revised
cities and villages act", effective January 1942. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-6-12: ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The city clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and at
regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
certified public accountant of the books to show the receipts and disbursements
of the sewerage system.
   B.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these regulations.
In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit report shall
include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-6-13: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the city clerk, shall be filed in
the office of the recorder of deeds of Logan County and shall be deemed notice
to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of the city
on their properties. (Ord., 11-13-1979)
7-6-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. (Ord., 11-13-1979; amd. 2010 Code)
7-6-15: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois environmental protection agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the city which
are applicable to the city system of user charges for the purpose of making
audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the special and general conditions to any state grant. (Ord.,
11-13-1979)
CHAPTER 7
NUISANCES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definition
7-7-2: Nuisances Prohibited
7-7-3: Nuisances Enumerated
7-7-4: Other Nuisances
7-7-5: Enumeration Not Exclusive
7-7-6: Investigations; Entry Powers
7-7-7: Notice Of Nuisance
7-7-8: Abatement Procedures
7-7-9: Penalty
7-7-1: DEFINITION:
A "nuisance" is any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall
exist or continue for such length of time as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public; or
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or property; or
   C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body of water or
other public way or place. (1977 Code)
7-7-2: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to wilfully
or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere
within the city. (1977 Code)
7-7-3: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Foul Odors, Filth: It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger
to the health, safety, welfare, peace and comfort of the city and its residents
for any person:
      1.   Businesses: To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to
create an offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous
to persons in the vicinity; or (1977 Code)
      2.   Animals: To keep or maintain any animals in an unclean or filthy
manner or surroundings, or to keep or maintain any animals which emit any
particularly foul or offensive odors, or to harbor an unmanageable number of
animals as to not maintain them within reason upon one's property; or (Ord., 6-
25-1997)
      3.   Animal Carcasses And Noxious Matter: To cause or permit to be
collected or to remain upon any premises or place any animal carcass or any
offal, filth, excretion or other noisome or noxious animal matter of any kind
which is, or is likely to become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
      4.   Vegetable Matter: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain
upon any premises or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which
is, or is likely to become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
      5.   Cellars, Vaults, Privies: To cause or permit any cellar, vault,
cistern, drain, privy, yard or other premises whatsoever to become, from any
cause, foul or offensive or injurious to the public health; or
      6.   Stagnant Water: To permit to be collected or to stand upon any
premises any foul or stagnant water of any kind; or
      7.   Stables And Pigsties: To locate or maintain, or permit to exist or
remain, anywhere within the city any stable or pigsty; or
      8.   Foul Or Noxious Substances: To use, deposit or keep any property,
substance or thing emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous
or noxious odor, effluvia or stench particularly repulsive to the physical
senses and which annoys, discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety
of any person. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
      9.   Debris: To permit to be collected upon any premises, the remains of
something broken down, apparently abandoned to the elements, or destroyed.
      10.   Litter: To cause or permit to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, any garbage, solid
waste, refuse and all other waste material which, if discarded, abandoned or
disposed of improperly, tends to create a danger to public health, safety and
welfare.
   B.   Rubbish, Dry Grass, And Exterior Property: It is hereby declared a
menace to the public safety and health and a nuisance for any person to cause
or permit:
      1.   Rubbish: The deposit or accumulation of any refuse, oily rags,
nonputrescible solid wastes, consisting of both combustible and noncombustible
wastes, including, but not limited to, paper products, cardboard, glass,
plastic or metal containers, wood, bedding, rubber and similar materials, or
other materials or substances of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard;
or
      2.   Dry Grass: The deposit, accumulation, existence or growth upon any
property of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other like substances
of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard.
      3.   Exterior Property: Any accumulation of rubbish, litter or debris, or
any enumerated nuisance listed herein upon any property within the city, or any
condition which causes or tends to cause decline in the value of neighboring
property whether residential or commercial. The owner, tenant or occupant of
any property under his/her control shall keep said exterior property in a
clean, safe and sanitary condition. (Ord., 4-9-2013)
   C.   Petroleum Products; Explosives: It is hereby declared a menace to the
public safety and a nuisance for any person to cause or permit:
      1.   Petroleum Products: The accumulation or storage, within one hundred
(100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business, other than a
licensed gasoline service station, of any petroleum, naphtha, benzine, coal
oil, gasoline, kerosene, turpentine or other petroleum products or inflammable
substances of any kind, in quantities greater than fifty (50) gallons; or
      2.   Explosives: The deposit, accumulation, storage or presence, within
one hundred (100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business, of
any powder magazine, nitroglycerin, dynamite or other explosive substance of
any kind.
   D.   Abandoned Refrigerators: It is hereby declared a menace to the public
safety and a nuisance for any person to cause or permit the existence or
storage in any place accessible to children of any abandoned or discarded
refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, deep freeze or other airtight appliance or
container of any kind, of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or
more, from which the lids, doors or other covers have not been removed or which
cannot easily be opened by a child, by means of pushing only, from the inside
thereof.
   E.   Dust, Cinders:
      1.   It is hereby declared a menace to the public health and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit any operations that cause or permit any dirt,
sand, gravel, cinders, ashes, earth or other similar materials to be hauled,
moved, rolled, compacted, scraped, dragged or otherwise disturbed so as to
cause or permit dust to be raised, blown or stirred through the operation of
machinery or otherwise to the detriment of any person or property.
      2.   Every person engaged in hauling of any sand, dirt, cinders, ashes,
earth or other similar materials or substances, or engaged in the moving,
rolling, compacting, scraping, dragging or other disturbance of soil and the
like, shall make adequate provision as often as is required to arrest and
prevent such dust through the use of salts, oil, chemicals and other materials
used and recommended for retarding or eliminating such dust, subject to the
supervision and approval of the superintendent of streets and alleys.
   F.   Scaffolding, Ladders: It is hereby declared a menace to the public
safety and a nuisance for any person:
      1.   To erect or use, or to cause or permit to be erected or used, any
insecure or unsafe scaffold or ladder whereby the safety of persons working
thereon or passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
      2.   To place or leave, or to cause or permit to be placed or left, any
tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder in such manner that the same
may fall into any street, sidewalk or other public way, whereby the safety of
persons passing thereunder may in any way be endangered. (1977 Code; amd. 2010
Code)
7-7-4: OTHER NUISANCES:
Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter, other provisions of this code,
or ordinances of the city shall be enforceable under the provisions of this
chapter as if enumerated specifically herein. (1977 Code)
7-7-5: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but are in
addition to and to be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in the statutes or other provisions of this code or ordinances of
the city. (1977 Code)
7-7-6: INVESTIGATIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
   A.   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of
police, fire, health and building officers and inspectors to investigate,
confirm and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   B.   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, said officers
and inspectors shall, upon proper identification, be permitted, at any
reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any
premises or property within the city to make an examination thereof, if they
shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists. (1977 Code)
7-7-7: NOTICE OF NUISANCE:
Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the police, fire, health or building officers or inspectors, notice shall be
given to the owner or person in control of the property or premises involved,
and to the appropriate city officials whose functions include the abatement of
such nuisances. (1977 Code)
7-7-8: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Abate Nuisance:
      1.   Whenever any health or building official or inspector, or any police
or fire officer determines that a nuisance exists on any private property or
premises, except as otherwise provided herein, the proper city official shall
cause a written notice to be served personally upon the owner or, if the owner
cannot be found, upon the occupant or person in control of the property or
premises who is causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance, and shall
cause a copy of said notice to be conspicuously posted within or upon such
property or premises.
      2.   Such notice shall fairly apprise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the time provided
therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall state that if
said nuisance is abated by the city, liability for necessary expenses so
incurred shall accrue as provided in subsection F of this section.
   B.   Duty To Abate; Time Limit: It is hereby declared the duty of any person
determined to have created, caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance
to exist within the city to discontinue and abate such nuisance within forty
eight (48) hours or such other time period as may be specified therein, from
the time he receives written notice thereof.
   C.   Failure To Abate; Separate And Recurring Offense: It shall be unlawful
and a violation of this chapter for any person to neglect, refuse or otherwise
fail to remove or abate any nuisance after expiration of the forty eight (48)
hour or other specified time period provided by notice thereof; and each twenty
four (24) hours, or fraction thereof, during which such nuisance continues or
exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
   D.   Abatement By City: Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner,
lessee or person in control of premises or property affected within the time
provided by notice, the proper city officer shall cause the abatement or
removal of such nuisance.
   E.   Summary Abatement By City When Emergency Or On Public Property:
Whenever any nuisance: 1) constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent or
immediate danger to public health or safety; or 2) exists on public property,
the proper city officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily and
immediately abated and removed, regardless of any forty eight (48) hour or
other time period specified by notice to the person responsible therefor;
provided, however, that in situation 1 above, such officer shall have first
applied for and obtained the written permission of the mayor for such summary
abatement.
   F.   Costs Of Abatement; Debt Of Owner:
      1.   Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably incurred by the city
pursuant to the provisions of subsections D and E of this section shall be
deemed a debt to the city by the owner, lessee or person in control of premises
upon which such nuisance existed; provided, that where specifically provided in
this code or by statute, such costs and expenses shall become a lien upon the
real estate or personal property affected, superior to all other liens and
encumbrances, except tax liens.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the city attorney to enforce, by civil
action, any and all such debts or liens as provided in subsection F1 of this
section. (1977 Code)
7-7-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 8
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FEE 1
SECTION:
7-8-1: Basis For Solid Waste Management Fee
7-8-2: Fee Established
7-8-3: Bills
7-8-4: Lien; Notice Of Delinquency
7-8-5: Foreclosure Of Lien
7-8-6: Revenues
7-8-7: Accounts
7-8-8: Notice Of Rates (Rep. by Ord., 8-12-2014)
7-8-9: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title for collection and disposal regulations.
7-8-1: BASIS FOR SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FEE:
   A.   Pursuant to state regulations to reduce solid waste disposal in
landfills, and to promote recycling of natural resources, the city hereby has
jointly ventured into agreement with other municipalities within Logan County
to adhere to said state regulations.
   B.   The fee will be based on administrative fees dictated by the Logan
County solid waste coordinator.
   C.   The solid waste management fee shall be reviewed annually by certified
public accountants for the city in their annual audit report. The solid waste
management fee shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in debt
service or a change in operation costs. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-15-1998)
7-8-2: FEE ESTABLISHED:
A minimum monthly fee shall be charged per user. The minimum monthly fee shall
be established from time to time by the city council. Said fees shall be kept
in a book or electronic record by the city collector for dissemination upon
request. (Ord., 8-12-2014)
7-8-3: BILLS 1 :
   A.   Fees for solid waste management shall be payable monthly depending on
the classification of service for which bills are rendered. (Ord., 6-9-1998,
eff. 6-15-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-
15-1998)
   C.   Bills for solid waste management shall be sent out by the city clerk or
the city collector on the fifteenth day of the month for the period for which
the service is billed.
All solid waste management bills are due and payable fourteen (14) days after
being sent out. A late payment penalty of ten percent (10%) of the balance
shall be added to all bills not paid by the fourteenth day after the billing
date. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-15-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  7-6-8 of this title for procedure regarding delinquent bills.
7-8-4: LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Whenever a bill for solid waste management remains unpaid for forty
five (45) days for monthly service after it has been rendered, the city clerk
shall file with the county recorder of deeds, a statement of lien claim. This
statement shall contain the legal description of the premises serviced, the
amount of the unpaid bill and a notice that the city claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   B.   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the city clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address be known to the city clerk, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for a period of forty five (45) days for a monthly bill after it has
been rendered. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-15-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   The failure of the city clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in subsection B of
this section. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-15-1998)
7-8-5: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment of
the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the city. The city
attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the
name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property for which the bill has remained unpaid for forty five (45) days after
it has been rendered. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-15-1998)
7-8-6: REVENUES:
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the collection of solid waste
management fees shall be deposited in the solid waste management fund for the
city. All such revenues and monies shall be held by the city clerk separate and
apart from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
city, and all of said sum, without any deductions whatsoever, shall be
delivered to the city not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or
at more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the mayor or
city council. Effective upon passage, payments calculated at two dollars fifty
cents ($2.50) per person within the city limits shall be made annually in equal
installments to the Logan County waste coordinator. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-15-
1998; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   The city clerk shall receive all such revenues from the solid waste
management administration and all other funds and monies incident to the
operation of such administration as the same may be delivered to him and
deposit the same in the account of the fund designated as the "solid waste
management fund of the city". The city clerk shall administer such fund in
every aspect in the manner provided by statute of the "revised cities and
villages act", effective January 1942. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-15-1998)
7-8-7: ACCOUNTS:
The city clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall
be made of all transactions relative to the solid waste management
administration, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent certified public accountant of the books to show the
receipts and disbursement of the solid waste management funds. (Ord., 6-9-1998,
eff. 6-15-1998)
7-8-8: NOTICE OF RATES:
(Rep. by Ord., 8-12-2014)
7-8-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. (Ord., 6-9-1998, eff. 6-15-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 9
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Sale, Use And Possession Of Tobacco Products
7-9-2: Definitions
7-9-3: Violations; Penalties
7-9-4: Enforcement
7-9-1: SALE, USE AND POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   Providing Tobacco Products To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any
person, whether acting individually, or as an owner, officer, employee or agent
of or on behalf of any person, firm, or corporation, to sell, buy for,
distribute samples of, furnish, exchange or give away any tobacco product in
any form to any individual under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Possession Of Tobacco Products By Minor: No individual under eighteen
(18) years of age shall have in his or her possession any tobacco product in
any of its forms. It shall not be a violation of this subsection for any such
person to have in his or her possession any tobacco products while in the
presence of his or her parents or legal guardian, or in the performance of a
religious ceremony, or while participating in any theatrical performance where
possession of a tobacco product is necessary.
   C.   Regulation Of Tobacco Products In City Buildings: No person shall use
any tobacco product in any city building. (Ord., 4-8-1997)
7-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
CITY BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind and which is permanently
affixed to the ground and which is owned or maintained by the city of Mt.
Pulaski, but does not include any picnic pavilion located in a public park
system.
POSSESSION: To have upon one's person or to have in close physical proximity.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Cigarettes, cigars, any "smokeless tobacco", which means
tobacco in any form which is suitable for dipping or chewing, or tobacco in any
form. (Ord., 4-8-1997)
7-9-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of subsection
7-9-1A of this chapter is a petty offense and shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first offense and a fine not to exceed
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second or any subsequent offense.
   B.   A violation of subsection
7-9-1B of this chapter is a petty offense and may be punishable by a fine not
to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00) for a first offense and a fine not to
exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for a second or subsequent offense. In addition
to or in lieu of a fine or any other penalty assessed upon a finding of guilt,
admission of guilt or admission of the commission of a first or second
violation of subsection
7-9-1B of this chapter, a final disposition may include community service,
education alternatives or any similar program authorized by the city council.
However, any nonfine disposition must be successfully completed by the offender
as deemed appropriate by the city council, or a fine shall be assessed pursuant
to subsection A of this section. (Ord., 4-8-1997)
7-9-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The observation of a violation of subsection
7-9-1B of this chapter shall not constitute the sole reason for law enforcement
authorities to stop a motor vehicle in which an alleged offender is a driver or
passenger. (Ord., 4-8-1997)
CHAPTER 10
OPEN BURNING 1
SECTION:
7-10-1: Definitions
7-10-2: Prohibitions
7-10-3: Exemptions
7-10-4: Permits
7-10-5: Explosive Wastes
7-10-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-17 of this code.
7-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
AGRICULTURAL WASTES: Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated on
a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials, and landscape
wastes.
DOMICILE WASTE: Any refuse generated on single-family domiciliary property as a
result of domiciliary activities. The term includes landscape waste, but
excludes garbage and trade waste.
GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food or food products.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings and crop residues.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products of
the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under section 9(b) of the
environmental protection act 1  of the Illinois pollution control board.
REFUSE: Any discarded matter, or any matter which is to be reduced in volume,
or otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties, in order to facilitate
its discard, removal or disposal.
RESTRICTED AREAS: The area within the boundaries of the city, plus a zone
extending one mile beyond the boundaries thereof.
TRADE WASTE: Any refuse resulting from the prosecution of any trade, business,
industry, commercial venture, utility or service activity, and any governmental
or institutional activity, whether or not for profit. The term includes
landscape waste but excludes agricultural waste. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 415 ILCS 5/9(b).
7-10-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as provided in
sections
7-10-3,
7-10-4 and
7-10-5 of this chapter.
   B.   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any chamber
or apparatus, unless such chamber or apparatus is designed for the purpose of
disposing of the class of refuse being burned. (1977 Code)
7-10-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities are not in violation of section 9(c) of the
environmental protection act 1  or of this chapter unless they cause air
pollution as defined in the act of the environmental protection agency: (1977
Code; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   The open burning of agricultural waste, but only:
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated; and
      2.   In areas other than restricted areas; and
      3.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants; and
      4.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks, or airfields; and
      5.   When it can be affirmatively demonstrated that no economically
reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.
   B.   The open burning of domicile waste, but only:
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated; and
      2.   In areas other than restricted areas; and
      3.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants; and
      4.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks, or airfields.
   C.   The open burning of landscape waste, but only: (1977 Code)
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated; and
      2.   In areas other than restricted areas; and
      3.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants; and
      4.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or airfields; and (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
      5.   For residents, from dawn until dusk on any given day. (Ord., 1-14-
2003)
   D.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when reasonably
necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official.
   E.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational, and cooking
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, or in areas where such burning is
consistent with other laws; provided, that no garbage shall be burned in such
cases.
   F.   The burning of waste gases; provided, that in the case of refineries,
all such flares shall be equipped with smokeless types of comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
   G.   Small open flames for heating tar and for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like. (1977 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/9(c).
7-10-4: PERMITS:
   A.   The environmental protection agency may grant permits for open burning
in the following instances:
      1.   For instruction in methods of firefighting; or for testing of
equipment for extinguishing fires, or flares and signals, or of experimental
incinerators, or for research in control of fires.
      2.   For the destruction of vegetation, on site, under circumstances in
which its removal would necessitate significant environmental damage.
      3.   For research or management in prairie or forest ecology.
      4.   For the destruction of landscape wastes; provided, that such burning
shall not occur:
         a.   In restricted areas, unless burning is conducted with the aid of
an air curtain destructor or comparable device to reduce emissions
substantially; or
         b.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any residential or other
populated area; or
         c.   After July 1, 1972, except with the aid of an air curtain
destructor or comparable device to reduce contaminated emissions substantially.
      5.   For the destruction of oil sludges in petroleum production for
safety reasons where alternative means including product recovery are
impracticable; provided, that when emergency conditions require, such burning
may be done without a permit, and a report shall be filed with the agency
within ten (10) days thereafter, indicating the place and time of such burning,
the quantities burned, the meteorological conditions, and the reasons why
emergency burning was necessary.
   B.   An application for a permit shall be in such form and shall contain
such information as shall be required in procedures adopted by the agency. Such
application shall contain, as a minimum, data and information sufficient to
inform the agency with respect to: the exact quantities and types of material
to be burned; the exact nature and exact quantities of air contaminant
emissions which will result; the exact frequency, including dates where
appropriate, when such burning will take place; the exact location of the
burning site, including a map showing distances to residences, populated areas,
roadways, airfields, etc.; the methods or actions which will be taken to reduce
the emission of air contaminants; the reasons why alternatives to open burning
are not available; and the reasons why such burning is necessary to the public
interest.
   C.   No permit shall be granted unless the applicant proves to the
satisfaction of the agency that the open burning: is necessary to the public
interest; will be conducted in such a time, place and manner as to minimize the
emission of air contaminants; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon
adjacent properties or the occupants thereof.
   D.   The agency may impose such conditions in the permit as may be necessary
to accomplish the purposes of the act or this chapter.
   E.   No permit shall be valid for longer than one year. Applications for
renewal of a permit shall be submitted to the agency at least ninety (90) days
prior to the expiration of the prior permit, and shall conform to subsection B
of this section. The standards for issuance of renewal permits shall be as set
forth in subsection C of this section.
   F.   Violation of any of the conditions of the permit shall be grounds for
revocation of the permit by the agency, as well as for other sanctions provided
in the act.
   G.   The agency may revise any permit granted pursuant to this rule, or any
condition contained in such permit. (1977 Code)
7-10-5: EXPLOSIVE WASTES:
Open burning of wastes creating a hazard of explosion, fire or other serious
harm, unless authorized by other provisions in this chapter, shall be permitted
only upon application for and grant of a variance as provided by the act and
chapter 1 of rules and regulations of the Illinois pollution control board.
(1977 Code)
7-10-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Supervision
8-1-2: Construction
8-1-3: Bond
8-1-4: Specifications
8-1-5: Injury To Pavements
8-1-6: Repairs; Defects
8-1-7: Obstructions
8-1-8: Barricades
8-1-9: Private Use
8-1-10: Encroachments
8-1-11: Drains
8-1-12: Poles And Wires
8-1-13: Gas Pumps
8-1-14: Openings
8-1-15: Barbed Wire, Electric Fences
8-1-16: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
8-1-17: Burning Leaves And Rubbish
8-1-18: View At Corners
8-1-19: Building Operations
8-1-20: Penalties
8-1-1: SUPERVISION:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the superintendent of streets and alleys. He shall have
supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be
charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such
public places (except traffic ordinances) and is hereby authorized to enforce
such ordinances. (1967 Code § 12.101)
8-1-2: CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful to construct, improve or lay any public street, sidewalk,
alley, driveway or other public way, or to repair the same without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
city clerk and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the
extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction
work. No such permit shall be issued except on order of the mayor or chair of
the streets and alleys committee of the city council. (1967 Code § 12.102)
Every driveway constructed after the effective date hereof lying within and
between the lot line and the edge of any concrete surfaced public street or
roadway shall be constructed with a permanent surface of concrete or hot mix
bituminous material. (Ord., 12-23-1969)
8-1-3: BOND:
Each applicant shall file a bond or policy in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00), with sureties to be approved by the mayor and
city council, conditioned to indemnify the city from any loss or damage
resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same, unless
waived by the mayor and two (2) members of the appropriate committee. (1967
Code § 12.103; amd. 2010 Code)
8-1-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with the
specifications approved by the mayor and city council and shall be inspected
from time to time, while work is in progress, by the mayor, chair of the
streets and alleys committee or the superintendent of streets and alleys. (1967
Code § 12.104; amd. 1977 Code)
8-1-5: INJURY TO PAVEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to walk upon, or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while the same is guarded by a
warning sign or barricade; or to knowingly injure any street, sidewalk or alley
pavement. (1967 Code § 12.105)
8-1-6: REPAIRS; DEFECTS:
   A.   Repairs: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be in
good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the city or the abutting owner,
shall be under the supervision of the superintendent of streets and alleys.
(1967 Code § 12.106)
   B.   Defects: It shall be the duty of every city officer or employee
becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any
obstruction thereof, to report the same to the superintendent of streets and
alleys. (1967 Code § 12.107)
8-1-7: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Unlawful To Create: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public way, except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance, or by the
superintendent of streets and alleys. (Ord., 10-27-1981)
   B.   Obstructing Person In Street:
      1.   No person, including a pedestrian, shall hinder, obstruct or delay,
or attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct, any other person lawfully driving or
traveling along or upon any street within the corporate limits of the city or
offer for barter or sale merchandise on said street so as to interfere with the
effective movement of traffic. (Ord., 2-13-1990)
      2.   Any person, including a pedestrian, accused of a violation of this
subsection may settle or compromise such claim against him or her for such
illegal obstruction by paying at the police station or at the city hall the sum
of two hundred dollars ($200.00) if paid within seventy two (72) hours of the
time such alleged offense was committed. If the fine is not paid within said
time period, a warrant of arrest for such pedestrian, driver, or owner of
property involved in such obstruction shall be obtained and issued through the
city attorney. (Ord., 2-13-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
8-1-8: BARRICADES:
   A.   Required: Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street,
sidewalk or other public place, or making an excavation in the same, shall
maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by
reason of the work; such barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at
nighttime.
Any defect in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury, and any
person properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any such place shall
guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open by proper
barricades and lights. (1967 Code § 12.109)
   B.   Disturbing Barricades: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere
with any barricades or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new
pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1967 Code § 12.110)
8-1-9: PRIVATE USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or other public
place as space for the display of goods or merchandise for sale, or to write or
mark any signs or advertisements on any such pavement except as approved by the
mayor and city council. (1967 Code § 12.111; amd. 1977 Code)
8-1-10: ENCROACHMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property. (1967 Code § 12.112)
8-1-11: DRAINS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley, or
cause any debris including, but not limited to, lawn clippings, leaves, tree
trimmings, branches, weeds, or refuse to be expelled, placed, or deposited into
public streets or alleys which may cause direct or indirect obstruction of said
drains. (Ord., 8-10-1999)
8-1-12: POLES AND WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or to maintain any poles or
wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without first
having secured permission from the mayor and city council. (1967 Code § 12.114)
8-1-13: GAS PUMPS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any
public street, alley or sidewalk. (1967 Code § 12.115)
8-1-14: OPENINGS:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any
public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place without a permit from the
mayor and city council.
All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong
cover or railing, subject to the approval of the superintendent of streets and
alleys. (1967 Code § 12.116)
8-1-15: BARBED WIRE, ELECTRIC FENCES:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or in
part of barbed wire, or with any similar materials designed to cause injury to
a person, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within the city
except to protect industrial property, in which case, barbed wire must be at
least six feet (6') above the sidewalk and extend inward of the property. (1967
Code § 12.117)
8-1-16: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street or public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavements thereof, or any waste material, glass
material or other articles including, but not limited to, grass and yard waste
of any kind, which may cause injury or damage to any person, animal, property,
streets or sidewalks. (Ord., 6-11-2006; amd. per minutes dated 7-11-2006)
Any such material shall be guarded by lights if the same remains upon any
street during nighttime. (1967 Code § 12.118; amd. 2010 Code)
Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks preparatory to
delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not thereby
reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article shall
remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1967 Code § 12.119;
amd. Ord., 6-11-2006)
8-1-17: BURNING LEAVES AND RUBBISH 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or other
substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the city. It
shall furthermore be unlawful for any person to burn, or allow to continue to
burn, said substances from dusk to dawn. (Ord., 8-10-1999; amd. Ord., 1-14-
2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 10 this code.
8-1-18: VIEW AT CORNERS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain or permit to remain any fence or
other structure, on a corner lot within thirty feet (30') of the street line
which obstructs the view at a height of more than three feet (3') above the
level of the adjacent street pavement.
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to the
penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which such obstruction to view is permitted
to remain after notice from the police department or any official of the city
to remove the same. (Ord., 4-9-2013)
 
Notes
  2. See also subsections
1 8-4-5J, K and L of this title and subsections
  10-2-9G and L of this code.
8-1-19: BUILDING OPERATIONS:
   A.   Use Of Streets: The use of streets for the storage of materials in the
process of construction or alteration of a building may be granted where the
same will not unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the usable
width of the roadway to less than eighteen feet (18'); provided, that no
portion of the street other than that directly abutting on the premises on
which work is being done shall be used except with the consent of the owner or
occupant of the premises abutting on such portion. Any person seeking to make
such use of the street shall file with the city clerk a certificate of
insurance, to be approved by the council, to indemnify the city for any loss or
damage which may be incurred thereby by reason of such use and occupation.
(1967 Code § 13.401)
   B.   Night Operations: No construction or alteration shall be carried on at
nighttime if the same is accompanied by loud noises. (1967 Code § 13.402)
   C.   Sidewalks: No sidewalks shall be obstructed in the course of building
construction or alteration without a special permit from the clerk being first
obtained. (1967 Code § 13.403)
   D.   Safeguards: It shall be the duty of the person or corporation doing any
construction, altering or wrecking work in the city to do the same with proper
care for the safety of persons and property. Warnings, barricades and lights
shall be maintained wherever necessary for the protection of pedestrians or
traffic, and temporary roofs over sidewalks shall be constructed wherever there
is danger to pedestrians from falling articles or materials. (1967 Code §
13.404)
8-1-20: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided herein, any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
Any person violating the provisions of section
8-1-17 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense and fifty dollars ($50.00)
for a second offense occurring within twelve (12) months of the first offense.
A third or subsequent violation of said section within said twelve (12) month
period shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 7-9-1991)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permit And Compliance Required
8-2-2: Application For Permit
8-2-3: Issuance Of Permit
8-2-4: Bond
8-2-5: Deposit
8-2-6: Barricades And Lights
8-2-7: Manner Of Excavating
8-2-8: Sidewalks
8-2-9: Time Limits
8-2-10: Restoring Surface
8-2-11: Supervision
8-2-12: Exemptions
8-2-13: Penalty
8-2-1: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make an excavation in
any street, alley or other public place in the city without having obtained a
permit as is herein required, or without complying with the provisions of this
chapter, or in violation of or variance from the terms of any such permit.
(1967 Code § 12.201)
8-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for such permit shall be made to the clerk and shall describe the
location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the purpose
therefor, and the person doing the actual excavating work, and the name of the
person for whom the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
done. (1967 Code § 12.202)
8-2-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
No such permit shall be issued except on order of the mayor and two (2) members
of the appropriate committee of the city council. (1967 Code § 12.203)
8-2-4: BOND:
No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the clerk a bond in the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss, liability or damage that may
result or accrue from or because of the making, existence or manner of guarding
or constructing any such tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a
corporation licensed to do business in the state of Illinois as a surety
company. This bond is waived when the person doing the actual excavating work
has on file with the city clerk a certificate of insurance in the minimum
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) personal injury liability,
and five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) property damage insurance. (1967 Code §
12.204)
8-2-5: DEPOSIT:
No excavation permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has deposited with the clerk a cash deposit in the sum of at least one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), if no pavement or bituminous improved area is involved,
and at least ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) if the excavation is in a paved
or bituminous improved area, to ensure the proper restoration of the ground and
laying of the pavement, if any. From this deposit shall be deducted the expense
to the city of re-laying the surface of the ground or pavement and of making
the refill if this is done by the city or at its expense, and the balance shall
be returned to the applicant without interest after the tunnel or excavation is
completely refilled and the surface or pavement is restored. (1967 Code §
12.205; amd. 1977 Code; 2010 Code)
8-2-6: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
Any person making or maintaining any excavation in any street or alley shall
keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights to protect persons
and property from injury. (1967 Code § 12.206)
8-2-7: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way contrary
to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper bracing shall
be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and in excavations,
the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any portion which
extends beyond the opening at the surface.
No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making of such
excavation or tunnel; and notice shall be given to the persons maintaining any
such pipes, cables or conduits, or to the city department or officers charged
with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or affected by the making
of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes, cables or conduits shall be
disturbed.
No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or the roots
thereof. (1967 Code § 12.207)
8-2-8: SIDEWALKS:
If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk, when
requested by the superintendent of streets and alleys, shall be constructed or
provided, which shall be safe for travel and convenient for users. (1967 Code §
12.208)
8-2-9: TIME LIMITS:
Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is estimated
will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration of the
surface of the ground, or until the refill is made ready for the pavement to be
put on by the city if the city restores such surface pavement. It shall be
unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation unless permission for an
extension of time is granted by the mayor or city council. (1967 Code § 12.209)
8-2-10: RESTORING SURFACE:
Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any public street, alley
or public place in the city shall restore the surface thereof to its original
condition. If there is no pavement, refills shall be properly tamped down, and
any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground.
Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be repaired and
the surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the ordinances and
subject to the supervision of the superintendent of streets and alleys; and if
such work is not done within ten (10) days after restoration is possible, the
city may restore the surface and charge the cost thereof to the permittee.
(1967 Code § 12.210)
8-2-11: SUPERVISION:
The superintendent of streets and alleys shall, from time to time, inspect all
excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley or
other public place in the city to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter. Notice shall be given to him at least ten (10) hours before the
work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences. (1967 Code § 12.211)
8-2-12: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter relative to securing permits shall not apply to
officers or employees of the city engaged in doing work for the city, nor to
persons or corporations doing work for the city under contract, nor to persons
or corporations which are operating under a franchise or grant from the city if
such franchise provides for the making of excavations and tunnels without
securing a permit therefor. (1967 Code § 12.212)
8-2-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS AND AWNINGS OVER PUBLIC WAYS 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Permit Required
8-3-2: Bond
8-3-3: Temporary Permits
8-3-4: Construction
8-3-5: Permit Period
8-3-6: Height Above Sidewalk
8-3-7: Inspections
8-3-8: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 4 of this code for billboard regulations.
8-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard or rigid canopy over any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way in the city without having first
obtained a permit therefor as herein provided. Permits for signs, canopies or
signboards shall be issued by the city clerk. (1967 Code § 12.301)
8-3-2: BOND:
Each person maintaining such a sign shall file with the city clerk a bond or
indemnity policy in the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) conditioned
to indemnify the city for any loss or damage or liability that may result from
the construction or maintenance of such sign or canopy. Provided, that if the
city council has secured a blanket policy to protect against risks, then no
such bond shall be required. (1967 Code § 12.302)
8-3-3: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
Temporary permits may be issued for maintenance of a temporary sign for a short
time and not to exceed three (3) weeks, upon payment of a fee of two dollars
($2.00) for each week or fraction thereof that such sign shall be maintained.
(1967 Code § 12.303)
8-3-4: CONSTRUCTION:
All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley or
other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will
be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from
other cause. (1967 Code § 12.304)
8-3-5: PERMIT PERIOD:
The period for which permits required by this chapter shall run shall be the
same as the general license year 1 . (1967 Code § 12.305)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-5 of this code.
8-3-6: HEIGHT ABOVE SIDEWALK 1 :
The lowest part of any such sign or any support thereof which extends over any
public way shall be at least ten feet (10') above the level of the walk or
public way over which it extends, but no such sign shall be maintained over any
public way used by vehicles if any part of its support or of the sign is less
than fifteen feet (15') above the level of such public way. (1967 Code §
12.306)
The lowest part of any canopy or awning shall be eight feet (8') above the
level of the walk or public way over which it extends. (1967 Code § 12.306;
amd. 1977 Code)
All existing signs, supports thereof, awnings and canopies shall be classified
as nonconforming, as of the effective date hereof. When such signs, supports
thereof, awnings or canopies are replaced or a major repair made thereon, a
permit must be obtained. (1967 Code § 12.306)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsections
  10-2-9J and 10-6-1F1 of this code.
8-3-7: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to inspect or cause to be
inspected every sign, canopy or awning which extends over any sidewalk, street,
alley or other public way. If any such sign or canopy is found to be insecurely
fastened, he shall report this fact to the owner of the sign or to the owner or
occupant of the premises on which it is fastened. If the sign or canopy is not
made secure within ten (10) days after such notice, it may be torn down on
order of the city council. (1967 Code § 12.307)
8-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision or failing to comply with any provision of
this chapter shall be subject to penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation or failure to comply
occurs or continues. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Title
8-4-2: Purpose And Intent
8-4-3: Definitions
8-4-4: Permit Requirements
8-4-5: Planting Regulations
8-4-6: Protection; Guards
8-4-7: Preservation; Maintenance; Removal
8-4-8: Trees To Be Trimmed
8-4-9: Public Nuisances
8-4-10: Interference With Arborist
8-4-11: Public Utility Companies
8-4-12: Appeal
8-4-13: Violation And Penalty
8-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MT. PULASKI TREE ORDINANCE.
(Ord., 1-26-1993)
8-4-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and to protect
the public health, safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation
of the planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants
within the city.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of the city council that the terms of this
chapter shall be construed so as to promote:
      1.   The planting, maintenance, restoration, and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs, and other plants within the city.
      2.   The protection of community residents from personal injury and
property damage and the protection of the city from property damage caused or
threatened by the improper planting, maintenance, or removal of trees, shrubs,
or plants. (Ord., 1-26-1993)
8-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used within this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth in this section:
ARBOR SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL: A manual prepared by the arborist pursuant to this
chapter containing regulations and standards for the planting, maintenance, and
removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants upon city owned property.
CITY OWNED PROPERTY: Property within the city limits of Mt. Pulaski and:
   A.   Owned by the city in fee simple absolute; or
   B.   Implied or expressly dedicated to the public for present and future use
for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or for public easements.
PROPERTY OWNER: The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of land.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A. Any dead or dying tree, shrub, or other plant, whether
located on city owned property or on private property, dangerous to public
safety.
   B.   Any otherwise healthy tree, shrub, or other plant, whether located on
city owned property or on private property, which:
      1.   Harbors insects or diseases which reasonably may be expected to
injure or harm any tree, shrub, or other plant.
      2.   By reason of location or condition constitutes an imminent danger to
the health, safety, or welfare of the general public.
      3.   Obstructs the free passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
which obstructs a street sign on city owned property.
      4.   Dangerously obstructs the view as such may be determined by the city
police officers and the city police committee.
      5.   Any otherwise healthy tree that needs to be removed because it is a
nuisance to the homeowner (particularly sweet gum trees) can be removed after
the city has granted permission to the homeowner. The homeowner will pay eighty
percent (80%) of the cost to cut and remove the tree. The city will pay twenty
percent (20%) of the cost. The tree must be replaced if a suitable location is
available.
TREES, SHRUBS, AND OTHER PLANTS: All vegetables, woody or otherwise, except
lawn grass and flowers less than twenty four inches (24") in height. (Ord., 1-
26-1993; amd. Ord., 5-11-2004) 
8-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Scope Of Requirement: No person, except the arborist, an agent of the
arborist, or a contractor hired by the arborist, may perform any of the
following acts without first obtaining from the arborist a written permit for
which no fee shall be charged, and nothing in this section shall be construed
to exempt any person from the requirement of obtaining any additional permits
as are required by law:
      1.   Plant on city owned property, or treat, prune, remove, or otherwise
disturb, any tree, shrub, or other plant located on city owned property;
except, that this provision shall not be construed to prohibit owners of
property adjacent to city owned property from watering or fertilizing without a
permit any tree, shrub, or other plant located on such city owned property.
      2.   Trim, prune, or remove any tree or portions thereof if such tree or
portions thereof reasonably may be expected to fall on city owned property and
thereby cause damage to persons or property.
      3.   Place on city owned property, either above or below ground level, a
container for trees, shrubs, or other plants.
      4.   Damage, cut, tap, carve, or transplant any tree, shrub, or other
plant located on city owned property.
      5.   Dig a tunnel or trench on city owned property.
   B.   Issuance: Within seven (7) days of receipt of the application, the
arborist shall issue a written permit to perform, within thirty (30) days of
the day of issuance, any of the acts specified in subsection A of this section,
for which a permit is requested whenever:
      1.   Such acts would result in the abatement of a public nuisance.
      2.   Such acts are not inconsistent with the development and the
implementation of the city forestry plan or with any regulations or standards
of the "Arbor Specifications Manual".
      3.   An application has been signed by the applicant and submitted to the
arborist detailing the location, number, size, and species of trees, shrubs, or
other plants that will be affected by such acts, setting forth the purpose of
such acts and the methods to be used, and presenting any additional information
that the arborist may find reasonably necessary.
      4.   The applicant agrees to perform the work for which the permit is
sought in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   The applicant certifies that he has read and understands those
provisions of this chapter and of the manual which are pertinent to the work
for which the permit is sought.
      6.   If the work for which a permit is issued entails the felling of any
tree or part thereof located on private property, which, as a result of such
felling, reasonably may be expected to fall upon city owned property, and if
such felling is done by one other than the owner of the property on which such
felling is done, then the applicant shall agree to indemnify and to hold the
city harmless for all damages resulting from work conducted pursuant to the
permit and shall deposit with the city clerk a liability insurance policy in
the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person/three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per accident for bodily injury liability
and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) aggregate for property damage
liability, which policy shall name Mt. Pulaski as an additional insured. (Ord.,
1-26-1993)
8-4-5: PLANTING REGULATIONS:
A permit for planting, trimming or care of trees or shrubs on public property
may be granted if there is compliance with the following regulations: (1977
Code; amd. Ord., 1-26-1993)
   A.   There shall not be planted any of the following trees: poplar, silver
maple, box elder, Chinese elm, black locust, willow, honey locust, catalpa,
ailanthus (tree of heaven), cottonwood, mulberry, sweet gum or any fruit tree;
nor shall any mulberry tree be allowed to increase in number or growth. (Ord.,
5-11-2004)
   B.   There must not be less than two inches (2") in diameter of trunk one
foot (1') above the ground.
   C.   All trees having a trunk which is two inches (2") to three inches (3")
in diameter one foot (1') above the ground must be supported by two (2) or more
tree guards.
   D.   No tree shall hereafter be planted at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets, or within twenty feet (20') of such intersection.
   E.   Trees that are cut down must be removed, and the root and stump thereof
must be grubbed out.
   F.   All pruning cuts above one inch (1") in diameter must be waterproofed.
   G.   Trees shall be planted at least thirty five feet (35') apart, at least
six feet (6') from a driveway and at least ten feet (10') from a streetlamp or
other public utility structure.
   H.   Only the following types of trees shall be planted in any parkway
adjoining a roadway where the clear space between the curb and the sidewalk is
less than six feet (6'): ginkgo (male only), Mayfield ginkgo, Crimean linden,
American linden or basswood, Olmsted columnar Norway maple, Armstrong columnar
maple, Scanlon columnar red maple, pyramidial European hornbeam, hop hornbeam
or ironwood, hackberry, tulip tree, ash.
   I.   No tree shall be planted where the soil is too poor to ensure the
growth of such tree, unless the planter excavates a suitable hole of not less
than thirty six (36) cubic feet and replaces the material removed with loam or
other suitable soil.
   J.   No tree shall be planted nearer than three feet (3') from the curb line
or outside line of a sidewalk, nor nearer than six feet (6') from the inside
line of a sidewalk; provided, that where the distance between the curb line and
the outside line of a sidewalk is less than six feet (6'), then such tree shall
be planted an equal distance between the curb line and outside line of the
sidewalk 1 .
   K.   Trees and shrubs on private property shall not overhang the public
sidewalk to a height of less than ten feet (10') above the walk, and such trees
and shrubs shall not be planted within three feet (3') of any public sidewalk 2
. (1977 Code; amd. Ord., 1-26-1993)
   L.   The owner of any lot, parcel or property abutting the intersection of
any two (2) public rights of way, including alleys, shall trim or caused to be
trimmed, so as not to obstruct the view, all shrubs and bushes located within
thirty feet (30') of said intersection, so that no bush or shrub shall exceed
three feet (3') in height above the surface of the abutting public right of
way.
      1.   "Intersection" is hereby defined as "the area embraced within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the
lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways which join one another
at, or approximately at, right angles or the area within which vehicles
traveling upon different roadways joining at any other angle may come in
conflict" 3 . (Ord., 4-9-2013)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 8-1-18 of this title and subsections
  10-2-9G and L of this code for view at corners.
  2. See section
2 8-1-18 of this title and subsections
  10-2-9G and L of this code for view at corners.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/1-132a.
8-4-6: PROTECTION; GUARDS:
Anyone doing construction, repair or maintenance work on any property adjoining
parks, parkways or other public property shall place adequate guards around
nearby trees and shrubs in such parks, parkways or other public property so as
to prevent injury to such trees. Machinery and implements shall be used in such
manner as not to destroy any trees or shrubs on public property. (1977 Code;
amd. Ord., 1-26-1993)
8-4-7: PRESERVATION; MAINTENANCE; REMOVAL:
The chairperson of the public buildings and grounds committee and the
chairperson of the streets and alleys committee are jointly authorized and
directed to plant, trim, spray, preserve and remove trees and shrubs within the
lines of all streets, alleys and public parks as may be necessary to ensure
safety or preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The
chairpersons of said committees may cause to be removed any tree, shrub or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition, or which, by its nature, is injurious
to sewers or other public improvements or is infested with any injurious
fungus, insect or other pest. (1977 Code; amd. Ord., 1-26-1993)
8-4-8: TREES TO BE TRIMMED:
It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of property adjacent to any of
the streets and alleys of the city to keep all trees growing upon their
premises so trimmed as to not in any manner obstruct the light upon any such
streets and alleys from the public lamps or any of them, nor interfere with
travel on said streets and alleys or any of them, by coming in contact with
vehicles of any kind in common use in the city, or with persons on horseback,
or pedestrians with or without raised umbrellas, and any owner or occupant
failing to trim such trees, as above provided, within ten (10) days from the
date of receiving notice to so trim, shall pay a fine of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each tree so neglected to be trimmed, and it shall be the duty of
the arborist forthwith to trim or cause the same to be trimmed. The notice
above required may be given by said arborist, in writing, left with the owner
or occupant or posted upon the premises where the obstructing trees may be
growing. It shall be the duty of the arborist to keep all trees growing upon
any of the streets or public grounds of the city trimmed in the manner and form
as hereinbefore provided, unless the owners or occupants of adjacent property
shall keep the same trimmed. (Ord., 1-26-1993; amd. Ord., 5-11-2004)
8-4-9: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Right To Inspect: The officers, agents, servants, and employees of the
city have the authority to enter onto private property whereon there is located
a tree, shrub, plant, or plant part that is suspected to be a "public nuisance"
as defined in section
8-4-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Abatement: The following are the prescribed means of abating public
nuisances under this chapter:
      1.   Any public nuisance under this chapter which is located on city
owned property shall be pruned, removed, or otherwise treated by the arborist
in whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement of the nuisance within a
reasonable time after its discovery.
      2.   Any "public nuisance" defined in section
8-4-3 of this chapter which is located on privately owned property shall be
pruned, removed, or otherwise treated by the property owner or his agent in
whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement of the nuisance.
      3.   No property owner shall be found guilty of violating this provision
unless and until the following requirements of notice have been satisfied:
         a.   The arborist shall cause a written notice to be personally served
or sent by certified mail to the person to whom was sent the real estate tax
bill for the last preceding year.
         b.   Such notice shall describe the kind of tree, shrub, or the plant
or plant part which has been declared to be a public nuisance, its location on
the property, and the reason for declaring it a nuisance.
         c.   Such notice shall describe the premises by legal description or
by common description.
         d.   Such notice shall state the actions that the property owner may
undertake to abate the nuisance.
         e.   Such notice will require the elimination of the nuisance no less
than thirty (30) days after the notice is delivered or sent to the person to
whom was sent the real estate tax bill for the last preceding year.
         f.   In the event that the nuisance is not abated by the date
specified in the notice, the arborist is authorized to cause the abatement of
such nuisance.
      4.   The arborist is empowered to cause the immediate abatement of any
public nuisance; provided, that the nuisance is determined by the arborist to
be an immediate threat to any person or property. (Ord., 1-26-1993)
8-4-10: INTERFERENCE WITH ARBORIST:
No person shall unreasonably hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the
arborist or his agents while engaged in the execution or the enforcement of
this chapter. (Ord., 1-26-1993)
8-4-11: PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to exempt public utility companies
or their agents from any of the requirements of this chapter. (Ord., 1-26-1993)
8-4-12: APPEAL:
Any party who elects to dispute any action or decision by the city arborist
shall be entitled to appeal to the city council for a final determination.
(Ord., 1-26-1993; amd. Ord., 5-11-2004)
8-4-13: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who fails to comply
with any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, upon being
found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for each separate offense, each day during which any
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall occur or continue shall be a
separate offense.
If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this chapter, the
injury, mutilation, or death of a tree, shrub or other plant located on city
owned property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement of such tree,
shrub, or other plant shall be borne by the party in violation.
The replacement value of trees and shrubs shall be determined in accordance
with the latest revision of "A Guide To The Professional Evaluation Of
Landscape Trees, Specimen Shrubs, And Evergreens", as published by the
International Society Of Arboriculture. (Ord., 1-26-1993)
CHAPTER 5
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
8-5-1: House Mover's License; Permit To Move
8-5-2: Application For License; Fee And Bond
8-5-3: Permit And Cash Deposit Required
8-5-4: Application For Permit
8-5-5: Issuance Of Permit
8-5-6: Notice To Utility Companies Required
8-5-7: Protection Devices And Warning Lights
8-5-8: Injury To Property
8-5-9: Indebtedness To City
8-5-1: HOUSE MOVER'S LICENSE; PERMIT TO MOVE:
In order to regulate the use of the streets and public places within the city
by persons desiring to move buildings and other structures thereon, it is
hereby provided that no person shall move any building, house or other
structure along or upon the public streets, alleys, ways or places within the
city without first having obtained a license as a house mover as herein
provided, and without also receiving a permit to move such building or other
structure as herein provided. (1977 Code)
8-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE AND BOND:
Any person desiring a license as a house mover shall make application for such
license to the clerk, and make payment of an annual license fee of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) and shall furnish a bond to the city in the sum of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), conditioned as herein set forth, and
after approval of the bond by the council, the clerk shall issue to the
applicant a license as a house mover expiring on May 1 next thereafter. The
bond of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) shall be conditioned among
other things that the applicant for such license will pay for any and all
damage which he, in any of his operations as a house mover, shall cause to any
tree, pavement, street or sidewalk, or any other city property whatsoever,
whether inflicted by himself or by his agents or employees, and further
conditioned to save and keep harmless the city from any and all suits,
judgments, costs, liabilities or expenses whatsoever which may in any way
accrue or be alleged against the city in consequence of the granting of such
license or permit and/or any operations thereunder, and conditioned further,
that the applicant will, in all things, comply with the provisions of this code
applicable thereto. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
8-5-3: PERMIT AND CASH DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
No house mover shall remove any building, house or other structure, along or
upon any public street, alley or place in the city, without first having
obtained from the council a permit to remove the particular building or
structure in question, under the regulations hereinafter provided, and without
first depositing with the clerk a cash deposit in an amount equal to the cost
of caring for, splicing, removing and replacing any wires, poles or cables,
pipes or other property of the city, the caring for, splicing, removing and
replacing of which is necessary to facilitate the operations of the house
mover. Such estimate of cost shall be made by the superintendent of streets and
alleys. The cost shall be paid out of the cash deposit, and any amount
unexpended from such deposit shall be returned to the depositor. If any
deficiency results under the deposit, the house mover must make up the
difference. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
8-5-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Before any permit shall be granted, the person desiring same shall make
application in writing to the council at the office of the clerk stating the
building proposed to be removed, where located, and the place to which it is
proposed to be moved. (1977 Code)
8-5-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The council, or someone designated thereby, shall thereupon, if it sees fit,
issue a permit therefor, prescribing the route to be taken, and the maximum
time to be allowed for such removal, and any other conditions which to it shall
seem needful for the public good. The work or removal shall be done in such
manner as to meet the approval of the superintendent of streets and alleys.
(1977 Code)
8-5-6: NOTICE TO UTILITY COMPANIES REQUIRED:
No building shall be allowed to be moved upon any street, alley or other public
place unless at least seven (7) days' previous notice has been given to any
street, railways, telephone or telegraph or electric light or power companies
whose rights of way or wires or poles of which the moving of buildings will
interfere. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
8-5-7: PROTECTION DEVICES AND WARNING LIGHTS:
Every person so moving a building hereunder, or who makes any sort of
excavation or piles any lumber or other material upon any of the public
streets, alleys or places within the city, shall, in addition to the
requirements of the other provisions of this code, keep from sunset until dawn
proper protection devices and warning lights about such obstruction or
excavation so as to give ample warning thereof. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
8-5-8: INJURY TO PROPERTY:
No mover of any building shall be permitted to cut or injure any tree within
the city without the consent of the owner thereof, or if on city property,
without the consent of the superintendent of streets and alleys and/or the city
arborist. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
8-5-9: INDEBTEDNESS TO CITY:
No permit to move any building or other structure shall be issued to any house
mover, nor shall the license of any house mover be renewed, in the event that
the house mover is in any way indebted to the city in any amount on account of
any expenses, costs, judgments, damages, liabilities or other indebtedness
whatsoever occasioned or incurred by or on account of any of the operations of
the house mover upon or along public streets, alleys, ways or places in the
city. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Administration
8-6-2: Rules And Regulations
8-6-3: Penalty
8-6-1: ADMINISTRATION:
All parks owned or acquired by the city shall be operated by the public
buildings and grounds committee of the city council. (1967 Code § 10.401)
8-6-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations shall govern the conduct of persons using
the city parks:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to throw, cast, lay or place any rubbish, paper,
garbage or refuse matter of any kind in or upon any of the city owned public
parks.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to cut, break, mark upon or in any way injure or
deface any of the trees, shrubs, plants, turf, grass, fences, buildings,
benches, playground apparatus or other constructions or property in or upon any
city owned public park.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to post or fix any notice or bill or other writing
or printing on any trees, lampposts, hydrants, fences, walls, buildings or
other places in any city owned public park.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to distribute, cast, throw or place in, upon or
about said public parks, handbills, pamphlets, circulars or other
advertisements for any purpose whatsoever.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to bring within, give away or drink any
intoxicating liquors upon any of the grounds of any city owned public park or
to enter or frequent any city owned park while in a state of intoxication.
(1967 Code § 10.402)
8-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 7
WATER REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
8-7-1: Turning On
8-7-2: Application
8-7-3: Deposit
8-7-4: Plumbing
8-7-5: Service Connection
8-7-6: Resale
8-7-7: Tampering With System
8-7-8: Service Pipes
8-7-9: Water Meters
8-7-10: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 8 of this title for water rates.
8-7-1: TURNING ON:
No water from the city water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the superintendent of water, or some person
authorized by him to perform this service. (1967 Code § 15.101)
8-7-2: APPLICATION:
Applications to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the city clerk
and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all of
the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of the city
water supply. (1967 Code § 15.102)
8-7-3: DEPOSIT:
A deposit shall be made with each application to be retained by the city to
ensure payment of all bills. The deposit amount shall be established from time
to time by the city council. When service to applicant is discontinued
permanently, this deposit, less any amount still owing to the city for water
service, shall be refunded without interest. (Ord., 12-10-2013)
8-7-4: PLUMBING:
No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the plumbing does
not comply with the provisions of the plumbing regulations of the city;
provided, that water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished
buildings, subject to the provisions of this chapter. (1967 Code § 15.104)
8-7-5: SERVICE CONNECTION:
No connections with a water main shall be made without a permit being issued
and seventy two (72) hours' notice having been given to the superintendent of
water. (Ord., 3-25-1986; amd. 2010 Code)
All such connections shall be made by an employee of the city water department.
Before connection is made with the water distribution system, the premises to
be served must be equipped with a meter and buffalo box properly installed on
the service pipe. When the meter is located within a building, the service pipe
shall be installed from the buffalo box to the meter and shall be at least four
feet (4') underground. No installation shall be covered until it has been
inspected by the superintendent of water and found to be satisfactory. (Ord.,
3-25-1986)
8-7-6: RESALE:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the city
water supply to any premises other than that for which application has been
made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency. (1967 Code § 15.106)
8-7-7: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city council to
tamper with, alter or injure any part of the city waterworks or supply system,
or any meter, or fire hydrant. (1967 Code § 15.107)
8-7-8: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Installation: All service pipes from the mains to the premises served
shall be installed by, and at the cost to, the owner of the property to be
served or the applicant for the service. Such installation shall be under the
supervision of the superintendent of water. (1967 Code § 15.201)
   B.   Pipes: No service shall be installed unless it conforms to the
specifications of the state plumbing code, as adopted in section
4-1A-1 of this code, three (3) copies of which are kept on file in the office
of the plumbing inspector. (1967 Code § 15.202)
   C.   Repairs: All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of
buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises
served, and such repairs shall be made and completed within three (3) working
days after being notified by the city. If such repairs are not made in the
foregoing manner and time, water service to said customer shall be discontinued
until repairs are made and completed. All repairs made to the service line
shall be inspected by the superintendent of water prior to backfilling. The
city may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipes, and if this is
done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the city by the owner of
the premises served.
"Service line" or "service pipe", as hereinabove used, is defined as the
connecting pipe between the city's water main and the owner's building.
The owner of the property shall not make any repairs to the water main of the
city, and the city shall not be responsible for the expense incurred by the
property owner in making such repairs to the water main in the absence of any
prior agreement between the owner and the city.
The owner of any property shall be responsible to bear all costs and expenses
in maintaining the water service pipes to the connection to the city water
main. The owner shall not make, or cause to be made, any excavation or repairs
to the city water main in connection with any repairs undertaken on the owner's
water service pipes, and the city shall not be responsible for the expense
incurred by the owner pertaining to the city water main portion of such repairs
in the absence of a prior agreement between the owner and the city. (Ord., 7-
23-1991)
   D.   Excavations: Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the
same shall be made in compliance with the provisions of the city ordinances
relating to excavations in streets 1 . Provided, that it shall be unlawful to
place any service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drain
pipe or sewer pipe. (1967 Code § 15.204)
   E.   Shutoff Boxes: Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every
service pipe and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line,
where this is practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily
accessible and shall be protected from frost. (1967 Code § 15.205)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
8-7-9: WATER METERS:
   A.   Meters Required: All premises using the city water supply must be
equipped with an adequate water meter furnished by the city but paid for by the
consumer. (1967 Code § 15.301)
   B.   Installation: Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easy
to access. (1967 Code § 15.302)
   C.   Reading Meters: The superintendent of water shall read or cause to be
read every water meter used in the city at such times as is necessary so that
bills shall be sent out at the proper time. (1967 Code § 15.303)
   D.   Testing Meters: All municipal water meters shall be taken out and
tested upon the complaint of the consumer, upon payment of a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00). If, upon the test, the meter is not within three percent (3%)
of accuracy, it shall be repaired and the twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee
returned to the consumer. (Ord., 3-25-1986; amd. 2010 Code)
8-7-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 8
WATER RATES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Rates
8-8-2: Bills
8-8-3: Nonpayment (Rep. by Ord., 3-25-1986)
8-8-4: Construction Contractors
8-8-5: Lien; Notice Of Delinquency
8-8-6: Foreclosure Of Lien
8-8-7: Funds Kept Separate
8-8-8: Waterworks Fund
8-8-9: System Of Accounts
8-8-10: Provisions Filed With County (Rep. by Ord., 3-11-2014)
8-8-11: Penalty
8-8-1: RATES:
   A.   All property within the corporate limits upon which any building has
been or may be hereafter erected having a connection with the city water system
shall pay charges as determined by the city council. All property outside the
corporate limits shall be billed at a higher rate plus additional nonresident
fee in sums to be determined by the city council.
   B.   A prepaid tap fee, plus the cost of materials, plus the cost of any
contract labor, shall be charged by the city to connect to the city water
system. The tap fee shall be determined from time to time by the city council.
   C.   Said set rates, fees and charges shall be kept in a book or electronic
record by the city collector for dissemination upon request. (Ord., 9-9-2014)
8-8-2: BILLS:
   A.   Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly depending on
the classification of service for which bills are rendered. (Ord., 4-13-2004,
eff. 7-2004)
   B.   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city. (Ord., 11-13-1979, eff.
1-1-1980)
   C.   Bills for water charges shall be sent out by the city clerk or the city
collector on the fifteenth day of the month for the period for which the
service is billed. All water bills are due and payable fourteen (14) days after
being sent out. A late payment penalty of ten percent (10%) of the balance
shall be added to all bills not paid by the fourteenth day after the billing
date. (Ord., 4-13-2004, eff. 7-2004; amd. 2010 Code)
8-8-3: NONPAYMENT:
(Rep. by Ord., 3-25-1986)
8-8-4: CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS:
During construction of any building, and before any water meter is installed,
as is herein provided, the contractor so constructing such building may be
permitted to use the city water supply by making application therefor, and
paying the flat fee prescribed by the city council. (Ord., 11-13-1979, eff. 1-
1-1980)
8-8-5: LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid for forty five (45)
days for monthly service after it has been rendered, the city clerk shall file
with the county recorder of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain the legal description of the premises serviced, the amount of the
unpaid bill, and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well
as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   B.   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the city clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises, if his address be known to the city clerk, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for the period of forty five (45) days for a monthly bill after it has
been rendered. (Ord., 4-13-2004, eff. 7-2004)
   C.   The failure of the city clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in subsection B of
this section. (Ord., 3-25-1986)
8-8-6: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment of
the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the city. The city
attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the
name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property for which the bill has remained unpaid for forty five (45) days after
it has been rendered. (Ord., 3-25-1986)
8-8-7: FUNDS KEPT SEPARATE:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the waterworks system
shall be held by the city clerk separate and apart from all other funds of the
city, and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered
to the city treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or
at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
city council. (Ord., 11-13-1979, eff. 1-1-1980)
8-8-8: WATERWORKS FUND:
The city treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the waterworks system
and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as the
same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in a separate fund designated
as the "waterworks fund" of the city, and the treasurer shall administer such
fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute. (Ord., 11-13-1979,
eff. 1-1-1980)
8-8-9: SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS:
The city clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall
be made of all transactions relative to the waterworks system, and at regular
annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
certified public accountant of the books to show the receipts and disbursements
of the waterworks system. (Ord., 11-13-1979, eff. 1-1-1980)
8-8-10: PROVISIONS FILED WITH COUNTY:
(Rep. by Ord., 3-11-2014)
8-8-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. (Ord., 11-13-1979, eff. 1-1-1980; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-9-1: Notice
8-9-2: Private Water Supply
8-9-3: Surveys And Investigations
8-9-4: Right Of Entry
8-9-5: Notice Of Disconnection Of Water Service
8-9-6: Costs
8-9-7: Adoption Of Regulations
8-9-1: NOTICE:
If in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code 1  or in the judgment of the
superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices as required by the Illinois plumbing
code and local regulations. (Ord., 1-26-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 320/1 et seq.; see section
  4-1A-1 of this code for adoption of the Illinois plumbing code.
8-9-2: PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY:
No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit to
be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply, other than the regular public water supply of the city, enters the
supply or distribution system of the city, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the superintendent of water and the Illinois
environmental protection agency. (Ord., 1-26-1988)
8-9-3: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the superintendent of water shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (Ord., 1-26-1988)
8-9-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross connections, and the water superintendent or
his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the city for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the
customer regarding the required cross connection control inspection. On demand,
the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
superintendent of water any information which he may request regarding the
piping system or systems for water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the superintendent
of water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this chapter. (Ord., 1-26-1988)
8-9-5: NOTICE OF DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE:
The superintendent of water of the city is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) is paid to the city. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can
be effected when the superintendent of water is assured that imminent danger of
harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action
shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. (Ord.,
1-26-1988; amd. 2010 Code)
8-9-6: COSTS:
The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (Ord., 1-26-1988)
8-9-7: ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS:
The city hereby adopts, and makes a part of this chapter, regulations of cross
connection control in accordance with those certain regulations on cross
connection control adopted contemporaneously with this chapter in printed form
and available for inspection in the city clerk's office. (Ord., 1-26-1988)
CHAPTER 10
WATER SERVICE EMERGENCY; WATER RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Preamble
8-10-2: Definitions
8-10-3: Water Service Emergency Declared By The Mayor
8-10-4: Stages Of Water Restriction
8-10-5: Fines And Penalties
8-10-1: PREAMBLE:
The city council of Mt. Pulaski, Illinois, finds that the Mt. Pulaski water
department was developed and is maintained to provide water to the citizens of
the city of Mt. Pulaski. Its primary purpose is to supply water to the citizens
of the city of Mt. Pulaski to further their health and welfare. Therefore, when
it appears that the city water supply is at a level such that fulfilling that
purpose is compromised, it is necessary to put water restrictions in place.
If any clause of this chapter is determined to be unenforceable, the remainder
of this chapter shall remain intact and enforceable. If this chapter conflicts
with any other ordinance of the city, this chapter shall take precedence.
(Ord., 7-24-2012)
8-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
BULK WATER HAULING: The transport of water away from the premises that water is
supplied to by the Mt. Pulaski water department.
CITY: The city of Mt. Pulaski.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Mt. Pulaski.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Mt. Pulaski.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
WATER: Water supplied by the Mt. Pulaski water department either directly or
indirectly to another entity. (Ord., 7-24-2012)
8-10-3: WATER SERVICE EMERGENCY DECLARED BY THE MAYOR:
Whenever, upon determination by the mayor of the city of Mt. Pulaski, in
consultation with such officials as he deems appropriate, the mayor of the city
determines that a water service emergency exists in the city of Mt. Pulaski,
and that such emergency requires that certain uses of water not essential to
the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the city be restricted and
the mayor issues and publishes and posts a declaration of such findings, in a
local newspaper of general publication, the provisions of this chapter shall
become immediately effective and applicable to all persons or entities served
by the Mt. Pulaski water system.
Further, prior to enacting a stage of water restriction, the mayor shall cause
to be posted at city hall, the post office, the city website, by mass e-mail to
those individuals or entities signed up through city hall on the city's e-mail
list, and at any other place deemed appropriate, notice of the stage of water
restriction in effect along with the date and time of posting. The stage of
water restriction shall take effect twenty four (24) hours after posting of the
notice. Once the mayor has declared a water service emergency, it is the
responsibility of the city water customers to inform themselves of the current
stage of water restriction. Failure of the city to post notice as described due
to circumstances beyond their control is not a defense for water customers
failing to abide by the restrictions. The notice may be posted at other
locations and through other means deemed appropriate.
It is not necessary that the stages of water restriction progress one step at a
time. The mayor may declare any stage to be in effect at any time that is
deemed appropriate and necessary. (Ord., 7-24-2012)
8-10-4: STAGES OF WATER RESTRICTION:
It shall be unlawful to use water delivered by the Mt. Pulaski water system in
violation of the following stages of restriction:
Stage 1: The mayor may request that the city water customers voluntarily reduce
         water usage in order to prevent the need for mandatory restrictions.
Stage 2: All bulk water hauling is prohibited, except fighting a fire in
         progress.
Stage 3: Stage 2 activities and the following activities are prohibited:
        Filling of swimming pools except kid size pools limited to one hundred
         (100) gallons.
        Washing of any pavement, driveway, or building.
        Washing of any vehicle except at commercial car wash facilities.
        Watering of ball fields.
        Watering of gardens except by use of hand operated nozzles.
        Watering of yards.
Stage 4: Stage 2 and stage 3 activities and the following activities are
         prohibited:
        Filling of swimming pools of any size.
        The following also applies:
        Water flow to all commercial users outside the city limits shall be
         restricted except nursing home use and firefighting use.
Stage 5: Stage 2, stage 3 and stage 4 activities are prohibited and the
         following also apply:
        Water flow to any commercial water user outside the city limits shall
         be shut off except nursing home use and firefighting use.
Stage 6: Stage 2, stage 3, and stage 4 activities are prohibited; stage 5 and
         the following also apply:
        Water flow to any water user outside the city limits shall be shut off
         except nursing home use and firefighting use.
Stage 7: Stage 2, stage 3, and stage 4 activities are prohibited; stage 5 and
         stage 6 and the following also apply:
         Water to city users shall be shut off for periods of time as
        determined by the mayor in consultation with the water department.
         Twenty four (24) hour notice requirements do not apply to this stage.
 
(Ord., 7-24-2012)
8-10-5: FINES AND PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter shall be penalized in accordance with section
1-4-1, "General Penalty", of this code, except for stage 2 violations which
shall be penalized as follows:
First offense: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
Second offense: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus restriction of water flow
until declaration of water emergency has been lifted.
Third offense: Elimination of water service until declaration of water
emergency has been lifted. (Ord., 7-24-2012)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted
9-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations for
pedestrians and the operation of vehicles, that certain code known as the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended, which code
has been and now is filed in the office of the city clerk, and the same is
hereby adopted and represented as fully as if set out at length herein, and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Speed Limits Established
9-2-1: SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
The speed limit for motor vehicles on all public streets within the limits of
the city shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour unless otherwise posted.
(Ord., 7-25-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SECTION:
9-3-1: Street Cleaning (Rep. by Ord., 5-10-1994)
9-3-2: Angle Parking
9-3-3: Parking Restricted; Certain Areas
9-3-4: Time Limit Parking
9-3-5: Parking Spaces Reserved For Persons With Disabilities
9-3-6: Restricted Parking
9-3-1: STREET CLEANING:
(Rep. by Ord., 5-10-1994)
9-3-2: ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   The city council is authorized to mark or sign such streets within the
city on which angle parking shall be permitted.
   B.   On such streets where angle parking shall be permitted, including
streets around the City Square so designated and marked, vehicles shall be
parked at an approximate forty five degree (45°) angle with the curb. The city
shall cause the surface of said designated streets to be marked in such a
manner as to set off spaces or boundary lines within which vehicles may be
parked at an angle. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such
line or mark, or to park such vehicle in a way that the same shall not be fully
within the area so designated by such lines or markings.
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent trucks from parking on
the centerline of the streets around the City Square for the purpose of loading
and unloading. (Ord., 6-23-1970)
9-3-3: PARKING RESTRICTED; CERTAIN AREAS:
No parking signs shall be forthwith erected on the following streets:
Street Side Location Ordinance
Street             Side  Location                                    Ordinance
                         Between DeKalb Street and Morgan Street
Belmont Street     Both  during the period from Memorial Day to      9-27-1983
                         Labor Day
Chestnut Street    Both  From Vine Street east to Route 121          10-24-1989
                         Between Scott Street and Belmont Street
DeKalb Street      Both  during the period from Memorial Day to      9-27-1983
                         Labor Day
West Dekalb Street Both  Between Spring Street and Winter Street     2-13-2001
Garden Street      West  Between Jefferson Street and Morgan Street  5-10-1994
German Avenue      Both  Between Spring Street and Marion Street     7-27-1971
                  South Between Illinois Avenue and Kentucky Avenue 9-11-1984
Illinois Avenue    West  Between German Avenue and Scroggin Avenue   9-11-1984
                         Between Marion Street and Park Street
Jefferson Street   North between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 4:00     2-27-1979
                         P.M.
                  South Between Garden Street and  Scott Street    5-10-1994
Kentucky Avenue    East  Between German Avenue and Scroggin Avenue   9-11-1984
Marion  Street    Both  Between German Avenue and Scroggin Avenue   7-27-1971
                  East  Between Cooke Street and Wayne Street       7-14-1987
                  East  Between Monroe Street and Green Street      7-14-1987
Mason Street       West  Between DeKalb Street and Morgan Street     7-14-1987
McDonald Street    Both  East to Route 121                           7-27-1971
Park Street        East  Between Morgan Street and Jefferson Street  7-14-1987
                         Between Jefferson Street and Cooke Street
                  West  between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 4:00     2-27-1979
                         P.M.
Scott Street       West  Between Chestnut Street and Jasper Street   7-14-1987
                  West  Between DeKalb Street and Morgan Street     7-14-1987
                  West  Between Harry Street and DeKalb Street      7-14-1987
                  West  Between Jasper Street and Harry Street      7-14-1987
Scroggin Avenue    Both  Between Marion Street and McDonald Street   7-27-1971
Washington Street  Both  Between Maple Street and Elkhart Road       3-28-1978
 
9-3-4: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for more than seventy two (72)
consecutive hours on any street or alley in the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for more than thirty (30)
minutes between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00)
P.M. during school days at the Mt. Pulaski High School on the following streets
except for residents living adjacent thereto:
 
Street        Side                        Location                  Ordinance
Cooke Street  Both                        Between Park Street and   6-28-1977
                                          Marion Street
Mason Street  Both                        Between Cooke Street and  6-28-1977
                                          Jefferson Street
                                          Between 302 South Wayne
Spring Street Both                        Street at the railroad    6-28-1977
                                          crossing on Spring Street
                                          and Jefferson Street
Wayne Street  North                       Between Spring Street and 6-28-1977
                                          Marion Street
             South side of the west half Between Spring Street and 6-28-1977
              of the block                Marion Street
 
   C.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on both sides of Washington
Street between Cooke Street and Wayne Street between the hours of two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Fridays of each week.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on both the outside and inside
perimeter of the streets bounding the Court House Square between the hours of
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Fridays of each week
and between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
every day between November 1 and the last day of February of each successive
year hereafter. (Ord., 5-10-1994)
9-3-5: PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   The city council is authorized to designate, reserve, and sign
appropriate parking spaces within the city for the exclusive use of persons
with disabilities.
   B.   Parking in spaces designated and signed pursuant to subsection A of
this section shall be prohibited by all motor vehicles not bearing registration
plates pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-609 and 5/3-616, or
proper permit as provided in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.2, the city police
department is authorized to issue a special permit to persons with disabilities
upon receipt of a statement by a licensed physician certifying the nature of
the disability. The said police department may issue permits permanently or for
a specified period of time when the disability is temporary as certified by the
physician.
   D.   Special permits issued pursuant to subsection C of this section shall
be displayed in the lower left portion of the rear window of the vehicle in
which the person with a disability is a driver or passenger. (Ord., 2-23-1982;
amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-6: RESTRICTED PARKING:
   A.   School Zones: It shall be unlawful to stop or park any vehicle between
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the following streets
on days when school is in session, or immediately before or during any
regularly sponsored school related activity or function:
 
Street        Side Location                                        Ordinance
Garden Street West Between Jefferson Street and DeKalb Street      5-10-1994
Scott Street  East Between Jefferson Street and Morgan Street      10-26-1982
             West Between Jefferson Street and Morgan Street (bus 10-26-1982
                   loading zone)
 
   B.   Miscellaneous:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in the easternmost parking
space on the south side of Cooke Street between Washington Street and Lafayette
Street between five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. each
day of the week, which said parking space shall be reserved for use by delivery
employees of Pizzaman of Mt. Pulaski Restaurant. (Ord., 2-14-1995)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Through Streets
9-4-2: One-Way Streets Or Alleys
9-4-3: Stop Streets
9-4-4: Yield Right Of Way Streets
9-4-5: Limitations On Left Turns
9-4-6: Posting Signs
9-4-7: Penalty
9-4-1: THROUGH STREETS:
The following streets and parts of streets are hereby designated as through
streets:
Washington Street north of the north line of Harry Street and south of the
south line of Harry Street and such other streets as may be designated from
time to time by ordinance as through streets.
The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and
shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless directed otherwise by the traffic
officer or a traffic control signal. (1967 Code § 18.201)
9-4-2: ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance, in any direction other than that so
designated. (1967 Code § 18.202)
   A.   The alley from Jefferson Street to East Cooke Street between LaFayette
Street and Vine Street shall be limited to one-way traffic for vehicles going
south. (Ord., 1-27-1981)
   B.   In front of Mt. Pulaski Grade School, a section of Garden Street from
Jefferson Street to Morgan Street shall be limited to one-way traffic for
vehicles going north. (Ord., 2-8-2000; amd. per minutes dated 5-10-2005)
9-4-3: STOP STREETS:
The following streets and parts of streets are hereby designated as stop
streets:
   A.   One-way stops:
Street/Location Direction Of Traffic Stop At Intersection Legislation
                                     With                 Derivation
Street/Location     Direction Of Stop At Intersection Legislation
                    Traffic      With                 Derivation
North Belmont       Northerly    East Chestnut Street Ord., 4-22-1980
Street
City park, traffic              Spring Street        Ord., 6-27-1972
exiting from
Flora Drive         Easterly     Vine Street          Ord., 12-28-1976
                   Northerly    County Highway No.   Ord., 12-28-1976
                                 10
North Garden Street Northerly    East Chestnut Street Ord., 4-22-1980
German Avenue       Westerly     Spring Street        Ord., 6-27-1972
Green Street        Westerly     Spring Street        Ord., 6-27-1972
Marion Street       Southerly    German Avenue        Ord., 9-27-1988
McDonald Street     Westerly     Spring Street        Ord., 6-27-1972
Monroe Street       Westerly     Spring Street        Ord., 6-27-1972
East Monroe Street  Westerly     South Vine Street    Ord., 4-22-1980
Morgan Street       Westerly     Scott Street         1967 Code § 18.203
West Morgan Street  Easterly     Garden Street        1967 Code § 18.203
Riggs Drive         Easterly     Spring Street        Ord., 6-27-1972
Rothwell Street     Easterly     Spring Street        Ord., 6-27-1972
North Scott Street  Northerly    East Chestnut Street Ord., 4-22-1980
Shields and Capps
addition to the
city, on the street Easterly     South Spring Street  Ord., 10-25-1966
running east and
west between blocks
2 and 7
South Vine Street   Southerly    East McDonald Street Ord., 4-22-1980
Wayne Street        Westerly     Spring Street        Ord., 6-27-1972
 
   B.   Two-way stops:
Street Stop At Intersection With Legislation Derivation
Street                 Stop At Intersection With        Legislation Derivation
Belmont Street         DeKalb Street                    Ord., 6-27-1972
East Cooke Street      Lafayette Street                 Ord., 11-14-1989
West DeKalb Street     North Spring Street              2010 Code
North Garden Street    DeKalb Street                    1967 Code § 18.203
Green Street           Vine Street                      Ord., 6-27-1972
East Jefferson Street  Lafayette Street                 Ord., 11-14-1989
North Lafayette Street DeKalb Street                    Ord., 4-22-1980
South Lafayette Street East Monroe Street               Ord., 2-9-1999
South Marion Street    West Cooke Street                Ord., 4-10-2012
East Morgan Street     North Lafayette                  1967 Code § 18.203
West Morgan Street     North Spring Street              Ord., 2-9-1999
                       Behind Mt. Pulaski Grade School,
Scott Street           from Morgan Street to Jefferson  Minutes dated 5-10-2005
                       Street
                      DeKalb Street                    Ord., 6-27-1972
                      Morgan Street                    Ord., 1973
South Street           Spring Street                    Ord., 6-27-1972
North Spring Street    West Jefferson Street            Ord., 4-22-1980
 
   C.   Four-way stops:
 
   Intersection                        Legislation Deviation
West Cooke Street and South Park Street   Ord., 9-24-1996
West Cooke Street and South Spring Street 1967 Code § 18.203
Garden Street and Jefferson Street        Ord., 7-11-1989
Harry Street and North Washington         1967 Code § 18.203
Jefferson Street and Scott Street         Ord., 2-25-1997
And such other streets or parts of streets as shall be designated by ordinance
as stop streets.
 
The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance, at one or more
entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not
so obliged to stop, which are within the intersection or approaching so close
as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event, there shall be
compliance with the directions of the police officer. (1967 Code § 18.203)
9-4-4: YIELD RIGHT OF WAY STREETS:
Any street designated by ordinance as a yield right of way street and so posted
is hereby declared to be a yield right of way street.
The driver of a vehicle in obedience to a yield right of way sign shall reduce
the speed of his vehicle to not more than twenty (20) miles per hour and shall
yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered the intersecting
street either from the right or left or which are approaching so closely on
such intersection as to constitute a hazard, but said driver having so yielded
may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or interferes with
the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right of way sign,
such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to
yield the right of way. (1967 Code § 18.204)
The following intersections are hereby established as yield right of way
intersections, and traffic moving from the first street named to the second
street named shall yield the right of way as required by this chapter:
Street Shall Yield To Legislation Deviation
Street                  Shall Yield To        Legislation Deviation
North Belmont Street    East DeKalb Street    Ord., 11-10-1966
South Garden Street     East McDonald Street  Ord., 11-10-1966
West German (westbound) South Spring Street   Ord., 11-10-1966
East Jefferson Street   Belmont Street        Ord., 2-9-1999
West Jefferson Street   South Spring Street   Ord., 11-10-1966
South Lafayette Street  East McDonald Street  Ord., 11-10-1966
Marion Street           Jasper Street         Ord., 4-24-1984
Morgan Street           Garden Street         Ord., 7-11-1989
North Scott Street      East DeKalb Street    Ord., 11-10-1966
Scroggin Avenue         East McDonald Street  Ord., 11-10-1966
Scroggin Avenue         West McDonald Street  Ord., 11-10-1966
North Spring Street     West Jefferson Street Ord., 11-10-1966
South Vine Street       East McDonald Street  Ord., 11-10-1966
 
9-4-5: LIMITATIONS ON LEFT TURNS 1 :
The driver of a vehicle shall not cross the centerline on any street described
in this section, between the intersections of said streets at each corner of
the Court House Square, as hereinafter set forth, for the purpose of making a
U-turn or for the purpose of parking on the opposite side of said street.
On East Cooke Street between the intersection of East Cooke Street and
Washington Street and East Cooke Street and LaFayette Street.
On Jefferson Street between the intersection of Jefferson Street and LaFayette
Street and Jefferson Street and Washington Street in the Hayes side of the
square.
On Washington Street between the intersection of Washington Street and
Jefferson Street and Washington Street and East Cooke Street. (Ord., 11-24-
1981; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-7-2 of this title.
9-4-6: POSTING SIGNS:
The chief of the police department shall post or cause to be posted suitable
signs for all through streets, one-way streets or alleys, stop intersections
and yield right of way streets. (1967 Code § 18.205)
9-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty under the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BICYCLES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Scope Of Chapter
9-5-2: Traffic Laws Apply To Riders
9-5-3: Mechanical Condition
9-5-4: Equipment Required
9-5-5: Rules Of Operation
9-5-1: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   B.   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not authorize
or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
   C.   The regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever any bicycle
is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (1977 Code)
9-5-2: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO RIDERS:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions
of this title, except as changed by special regulations contained in this
chapter and those provisions of this title which, by their nature, can have no
application. (1977 Code)
9-5-3: MECHANICAL CONDITION:
All police officers shall have authority to inspect all bicycles for mechanical
fitness. (1977 Code)
9-5-4: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Brakes: Every bicycle, when operated upon a highway, shall be equipped
with a brake adequate to control the movement of and to stop such bicycle
whenever necessary. (1977 Code)
   B.   Lamps And Reflectors: Every bicycle operated after sunset shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear. Every such reflector shall be so designed and maintained
as to be visible at night from all distances from one hundred feet (100') to
six hundred feet (600') to the rear from such bicycle when directly in front of
a motor vehicle displaying lawful lower beams of headlamps. A lamp exhibiting a
red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may
be used in addition to the rear reflector.
   C.   Audible Signal: No bicycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person
use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle. This provision does not apply to a
bicycle that is a police vehicle. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
9-5-5: RULES OF OPERATION:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person upon
such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon,
except, that an adult rider may carry a child securely attached to the person
in a backpack or sling; nor shall any person ride upon a bicycle other than as
authorized in this subsection A1. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   B.   Right Of Way On Sidewalks: When permitted or required by this chapter
to ride on sidewalks, bicycle riders shall use the right side of sidewalks
insofar as practicable. A person riding a bicycle on a sidewalk shall yield the
right of way to every pedestrian and, when approaching a pedestrian from the
rear, shall give audible warning signal when at least twenty five feet (25')
distant from the pedestrian.
   C.   Speed Of Bicycles: No person riding a bicycle shall ride faster than is
reasonable and proper in regard to the safety of the rider and others.
   D.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle shall hold onto
or cling to another vehicle powered by a motor. (1977 Code)
   E.   Carrying Articles: No person riding a bicycle shall carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the use of both hands in the control and
operation of the bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one
hand on the handlebars at all times. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Trick Riding: No rider of a bicycle shall remove both hands from the
handlebars, or feet from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding
on any street; nor shall any person operating a bicycle upon a public highway
participate in any race for speed or endurance contest with any other vehicle,
except under permit from and under the supervision of the police department.
   G.   Parking Bicycles: No person shall park a bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere with pedestrians or persons getting into or out of vehicles. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 6
VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Parking Violations
9-6-2: Unauthorized Use Of Parking Spaces For Persons With Disabilities
9-6-3: Restrictions On Noise
9-6-4: Penalty
9-6-1: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting parking in
certain designated areas, or restricting the length of time a vehicle may be
parked, may settle and compromise such claim against him or her for such
illegal parking by paying to the city:
   A.   The sum of ten dollars ($10.00) if paid within seventy two (72) hours
of the time such alleged offense was committed. (Ord., 10-9-2001)
   B.   Fines paid after seventy two (72) hours but within five (5) days of the
date of the traffic violation ticket shall carry an additional fifty percent
(50%) penalty fee.
   C.   If the fine is not paid within five (5) days of the date of the traffic
ticket, a warrant of arrest for such violator, or the registered owner of such
vehicle, shall be obtained and issued through the city attorney. (Ord., 5-22-
1979)
   D.   The minimum fine of ten dollars ($10.00) for parking violations shall
not apply: (Ord., 5-22-1979; amd. Ord., 10-9-2001)
      1.   For parking any vehicle within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
or
      2.   For parking any vehicle in the wrong direction, either by back-in
parking in a diagonal parking space or by parking on the wrong side of the
street in a parallel parking space. (Ord., 5-22-1979)
The sum of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be the minimum fine for a violation of
either subsection D1 or D2 of this section. Failure to pay such fine within the
time periods set forth in subsections A, B and C of this section shall result
in the additional penalties and sanctions as therein set forth. (Ord., 5-22-
1979; amd. 2010 Code)
Payment of any fine hereunder shall be made at the police station or at the
city hall. A receipt shall be issued for all monies so received, and said
monies shall be promptly turned over to the city treasurer.
When such payment has been made, the members of the police department are
hereby authorized to refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged
offense involved.
Provided, that this section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as
to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where police or fire department
apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an
emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this section apply to any person
charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic on any street
or alley, or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street
to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle
illegally parked at the request of any member of the police department. (Ord.,
5-24-1976)
9-6-2: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
Any person violating the provisions of section
9-3-5, "Parking Spaces Reserved For Persons With Disabilities", of this title
shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each offense. (Ord., 4-9-1985; amd. 2010 Code)
9-6-3: RESTRICTIONS ON NOISE:
No radio, tape, cassette or other recording shall be operated in a home or in a
private pleasure vehicle in such a manner that the noise therefrom is audible
at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from such vehicle or home. This
section shall not apply to noise devices, bands or other musical devices used
in any public parade or procession which is operated under a permit in
accordance with the ordinances of the city. Excessive noise due to muffler or
tires on any type of motor driven vehicle shall be construed to be a violation
of this section. (Ord., 4-8-1986)
9-6-4: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this title
shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than seventy
five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. The fine shall be paid at city hall. A receipt shall be issued
for all monies so received, and said monies shall be promptly turned over to
the city treasurer. (Ord., 4-8-1986; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TRUCK TRAFFIC
SECTION:
9-7-1: Through Truck Traffic Prohibited
9-7-2: Left Turn Prohibited
9-7-1: THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to drive or tow any semitractor and trailer upon
the city streets.
   B.   Truck drivers living in the city or truck drivers making local
deliveries are exempt. Bills of lading or vehicle registration shall be used to
determine exemption.
   C.   The fine for violating this section shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the first offense and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense
thereafter. (Ord., 6-23-1987)
9-7-2: LEFT TURN PROHIBITED:
Through truck traffic is prohibited from turning left off of Chestnut Street
onto Route 121. (Ord., 2-8-2000)
CHAPTER 8
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definitions
9-8-2: Obedience To Police
9-8-3: Registration Required
9-8-4: Equipment
9-8-5: Operation
9-8-6: Routes
9-8-7: Times Of Operation
9-8-8: Regulations
9-8-9: Emergencies
9-8-10: Penalties
9-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in the snowmobile registration and safety act of the
state, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1-1 et seq., hereinafter called the
"act", as amended, are hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part
hereof. (Ord., 3-28-1995)
9-8-2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE:
Police officers are hereby authorized to direct all snowmobile traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or directions of a
police officer. Except in an emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct snowmobile traffic. (Ord., 3-
28-1995)
9-8-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
No person shall operate any snowmobile within the corporate limits of the city
unless such snowmobile has been registered and numbered in accordance with the
act and unless the certificate or number awarded to such snowmobile is in full
force and effect and the identifying number set forth in the certificate is
displayed on each side of the cowling of such snowmobile in accordance with the
act, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. (Ord.,
3-28-1995)
9-8-4: EQUIPMENT:
All snowmobiles operated within the corporate limits of the city shall be
equipped as required by the provisions of article IV of the act, which is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. (Ord., 3-28-1995)
9-8-5: OPERATION:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in a manner
prohibited by article V of the act, which is incorporated herein by reference
and made a part hereof. (Ord., 3-28-1995)
9-8-6: ROUTES:
The following streets of the city shall be used as snowmobile routes for
ingress and egress to the city:
Vine Street from Flora Drive south to McDonald Street.
Spring Street east on Green Street to Washington Street, south on Washington
Street to McDonald Street, then east to Route 121.
Spring Street from the city limits north to Jasper Street.
Jasper Street from Spring Street east to Vine Street.
Chestnut Street from Vine Street east to the city limits.
Flora Drive from Vine Street northwesterly to Elkhart Road.
Elkhart Road west to Winter Street.
Winter Street south to Cooke Street.
Cooke Street from Winter Street east to Spring Street.
All operators of snowmobiles shall gain entry to the snowmobile route by the
most direct and accessible manner, without delay, from their homes to the
route. Any street of the city not designated as a snowmobile route shall be
used only by operators of snowmobiles for the purposes of traveling from their
homes to the routes and back. All persons operating snowmobiles on the routes
as above set forth will remain on or as close as possible to the right side of
the roadway and shall yield right of way to all other motor vehicles. (Ord., 3-
28-1995)
9-8-7: TIMES OF OPERATION:
Snowmobiles may be operated within the city as hereinabove provided, only
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight each day of the week. No snowmobile may be operated within the city
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. on any day. (Ord., 3-28-1995)
9-8-8: REGULATIONS:
In addition to the directions for operation of snowmobiles hereinabove set
forth, operators must obey all traffic regulations as prescribed for motor
vehicle traffic and are subject to penalties for violation thereof. (Ord., 3-
28-1995)
9-8-9: EMERGENCIES:
This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the use of snowmobiles in the
city by authorized personnel of the city or of any other governmental body or
agency when said use shall be required for emergency purposes. (Ord., 3-28-
1995; amd. 2010 Code)
9-8-10: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined
at least twenty five dollars ($25.00), but not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Any person convicted more than one time for violating this
chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each subsequent violation. (Ord., 3-28-
1995; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 9
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Definitions
9-9-2: Authorized Non-Highway Vehicles
9-9-3: City Permit And Inspection
9-9-4: Compliance With All Traffic Laws
9-9-5: Required Equipment
9-9-6: Rules And Regulations
9-9-7: Mandatory Insurance
9-9-8: Exceptions
9-9-9: Revocation Of Permit
9-9-10: Violations And Penalties
9-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                          A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the
                          purposes of transporting one or more persons and
GOLF CART:                their golf clubs or maintenance equipment while
(taken from Sec. 1-123.9) engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play
                          of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds
                          on a public or private golf course. (Ord. 10272020,
                          10-27-2020)
 
9-9-2: AUTHORIZED NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
This ordinance restricts non-highway vehicles authorized for use to a “golf
cart” as set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 10272020, 10-27-2020)
9-9-3: CITY PERMIT AND INSPECTION:
   A.   To be operated in the City of Mt. Pulaski pursuant to this Chapter, an
authorized non-highway vehicle shall be inspected and a permit issued by the
City of Mt. Pulaski. A person seeking a permit shall apply at city hall on
forms provided by the City. The completed application shall be maintained by
the city.
   B.   The permit shall be valid for one (1) year from the date of issuance.
   C.   Prior to the issuance of a permit an application and licensing fee of
fifty dollars ($50) shall be paid to the City Clerk.
   D.   Permit application must list all qualified persons who will be
operating the authorized non-highway vehicle. The serial number, make, model,
and description must also be provided.
   E.   The applicant and all listed operators must complete the Signed Waiver
of Liability releasing the city and agreeing to defend, indemnify and hold the
city harmless from any and all future claims resulting from the operation of
their authorized non-highway vehicle on city streets.
   F.   A photocopy of each operators Illinois drivers license and photocopy of
applicable liability insurance coverage specifically for the authorized non-
highway vehicle to be operated will be required.
   G.   The city retains the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke any permit
for any authorized non-highway vehicle at any time for any violation of this
subchapter or any other ordinance, rule, regulation or state or federal rule,
regulation or statute.
   H.   The applicant shall present the authorized non-highway vehicle to the
Chief of Police, or his designee, for an inspection to determine if it is
compliant with this ordinance and applicable state statutes. If the applicant
and vehicle are qualified, a permit shall be issued to the applicant that must
be conspicuously affixed to the rear of the vehicle that it may be easily
observed from the exterior. If a vehicle is sold, leased, or otherwise
transferred, the permit shall not be transferred or assigned to the buyer. A
buyer must apply for a permit in the manner provided above. (Ord. 10272020, 10-
27-2020)
9-9-4: COMPLIANCE WITH ALL TRAFFIC LAWS:
Authorized non-highway vehicles and passengers shall comply with all applicable
local and state traffic laws and ordinances. Violations may be ticketed and
prosecuted in the same manner as motor vehicle violations. (Ord. 10272020, 10-
27-2020)
9-9-5: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
To be operated in the City of Mt. Pulaski pursuant to this Chapter, an
authorized non-highway vehicle shall have the following equipment in good
working condition at all times:
   A.   Brakes;
   B.   A steering apparatus;
   C.   Tires for appropriate and reasonable use on city streets; a rear view
mirror;
   D.   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear; a slow moving
emblem as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-709 in plain view on the rear of the golf
cart;
   E.    A head light that emits a white light visible from 500 feet to the
front;
   F.   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear;
   G.   Brake lights on the rear; and
   H.   Turn signals on the front and rear. (Ord. 10272020, 10-27-2020)
9-9-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   To be operated in the City of Mt. Pulaski pursuant to this Chapter, an
authorized non-highway vehicle shall have its headlight and tail lamps
illumined at all times.
   B.   No person shall operate an authorized non-highway vehicle in the City
of Mt. Pulaski unless the operator is at least eighteen years of age (18) and
has a valid Illinois driver’s license.
   C.   An authorized non-highway vehicle may only be operated commencing at
sunrise and ending at sunset with the times being those reported by the
national weather service for the Springfield, Illinois area. An authorized non-
highway vehicle may not be operated when visibility is impaired by weather,
smoke, fog, or other conditions or at any time when there is insufficient light
to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   D.   No authorized non-highway vehicle shall be operated with more occupants
or passengers than its factory-installed seating provides.
   E.   No authorized non-highway vehicle shall tow, haul, or trailer any
device or equipment on any city street.
   F.   Each driver and passenger of a golf cart shall wear a properly fastened
and adjusted seat safety belt. Children must be secured in a child restraint
system as required pursuant to the Child Passenger Protection Act (625 ILCS 25/
1 et seq.).
   G.   Authorized non-highway vehicles shall have no increased power,
wheelbase, seating or tire modifications from a standard manufactured vehicle.
   H.   Operation on Vine Street is prohibited except between Maple Street and
Flora Drive. Operation of an authorized non-highway vehicle shall not be
permitted on any city sidewalk, Illinois Route 121 or County Route 10 (Elkhart
Road). Crossing Illinois Route 121 and County Route 10 in a straight line only
is permitted.
   I.   Open alcohol is prohibited while operating non-highway vehicle. Any
person who drives or is in actual physical control of a non-highway vehicle on
a roadway while under the influence is subject to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-501 through 5/11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord.
10272020, 10-27-2020)
9-9-7: MANDATORY INSURANCE:
No person in the City of Mt. Pulaski shall operate, or permit another person to
operate, an authorized non-highway vehicle unless the operator is covered by a
liability insurance policy as required by 625 ILCS 5/7-601 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code; and the operator carries with him proof of liability insurance as
required by 625 ILCS 5/7-602 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 10272020, 10-
27-2020)
9-9-8: EXCEPTIONS:
Exceptions for use of non-highway vehicles not listed or defined in this
chapter may be granted by the Mayor, Chief of Police, or his designee for
public works employees or other authorized personnel during city events or
festivities. (Ord. 10272020, 10-27-2020)
9-9-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   A permit to operate an authorized non-highway vehicle may be revoked by
the Chief of Police, or his designee, if:
      1.   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on the
application; or
      2.   The required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect; or
      3.   It has been determined that the operator can no longer safely
operate the vehicle; or it has been determined that the vehicle cannot be
safely operated; the vehicle fails to meet the standard equipment requirements
set forth herein; or
      4.   Upon a finding that the holder of the permit has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter or the Illinois vehicle code or for any reason that
the Chief of Police or his designee feels is appropriate to ensure the safety
and well-being of the citizens of the City.
   B.   The Chief of Police, or his designee, shall issue a Notice of
Revocation of the permit and serve it upon the license holder personally either
verbally or in written form or by certified mail at the address provided in the
license application. The revocation shall go into effect immediately after
personal service or on the third day after the postmark of the certified mail
receipt.
   C.   No person with a revoked permit shall be eligible to reapply for a
permit for a period of one (1) year following the revocation.
   D.   An appeal for a revocation may be made directly to the City Council and
heard either at a regularly noticed or special meeting. (Ord. 10272020, 10-27-
2020)
9-9-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found in violation of the provisions of this Ordinance may
be ticketed no less than one hundred fifty dollars ($ 150) per offense plus any
additional court and collection costs.
   B.   For purposes of this subsection, separate occurrences for the same
violation of the Ordinance constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 10272020, 10-
27-2020)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY PLAN
SECTION:
10-1-1: Establishment
10-1-2: Reference
10-1-3: Compliance
10-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
The official plan of the city, approved by the city council, shall consist of
the following:
   A.   A map of the city, charts and diagrams showing proposed additions to
and improvements of the city streets, parks, public buildings, sewage disposal
system, water system and street lighting system. (1967 Code § 10.301; amd. 2010
Code)
   B.   The specifications for street construction and paving established by
the city council.
   C.   The zoning ordinance.
   D.   The subdivision control ordinance. (1967 Code § 10.301)
10-1-2: REFERENCE:
Any reference to the official plan of the city shall be taken to mean and
include all of the enactments set out in section
10-1-1 of this chapter. (1967 Code § 10.302)
10-1-3: COMPLIANCE:
No plat of subdivision, plan for the construction or layout of streets, or work
involving laying sewer or water mains shall be approved unless the same
complies fully with the requirements of the city plan. (1967 Code § 10.303)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Title
10-2-2: Purpose
10-2-3: Intent
10-2-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-2-5: Interpretation
10-2-6: Severability
10-2-7: Jurisdiction
10-2-8: Restrictions
10-2-9: Site Restrictions
10-2-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the MT. PULASKI, ILLINOIS,
ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-2-2: PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people;
   B.   To divide the city into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land for residential, business and other
specified uses;
   C.   To protect the character and the stability of the residential, business
and manufacturing areas within the city, and to promote the orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
   D.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   E.   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air, and to protect the public health;
   F.   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within such areas;
   G.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
   H.   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   I.   To prevent additions to or remodeling of existing buildings or
structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and limitations imposed
hereunder:
      1.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading of commercial vehicles;
      2.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards
in the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
      3.   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate, in each district by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
      4.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city;
      5.   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district; and
      6.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-2-3: INTENT:
It shall be the intent of this title to divide the city into districts for the
purpose of classifying, regulating and restricting the location of trades,
industries and commercial enterprises, and the location of buildings arranged,
intended and designed for specified uses; of regulating and limiting the height
and bulk of buildings hereafter erected; of classifying, regulating and
determining the area of front, rear and side yards, courts and other open
spaces about buildings; and of regulating and limiting the intensity of the use
of land and lot areas within the city. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-2-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the
use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provision of this title, or any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive (or which
impose higher standards or requirements) shall govern.
   B.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this title are
more restrictive (or impose higher standards or requirements), then the
provisions of this title shall govern. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-2-5: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, morals and welfare. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-2-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, provision or portion of this title is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this title shall not be affected thereby. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-2-7: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of this title shall include all lands and waters within the
corporate limits of the city, and all land and waters in sections 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 15, 22, 23, 24 of the northeast quarter of section 27, the northern
half of section 26, and the northwest quarter of section 25 of the township of
Mt. Pulaski, Logan County, Illinois. All buildings erected hereafter, all uses
of land or buildings established hereafter, and all structural alterations or
relocation of existing buildings occurring hereafter shall be subject to all
regulations of this title, which are applicable to the zoning districts in
which such buildings, uses or land shall be located. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
10-2-8: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Only those principal and accessory uses specified for a district shall
be permitted in that district.
   B.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted in any district, but not
until their principal structure is present or under construction.
   C.   Conditional uses and their accessory uses are permitted in districts as
specified, but only according to the conditional use procedure in chapter 12 of
this title.
   D.   In case of uncertainty where the zoning enforcement officer is unable
to determine literally whether a use is permitted as a principal or accessory
use, he shall consult the board of zoning appeals 1  for an original
interpretation.
   E.   Temporary uses such as real estate sales field offices or shelters for
materials and equipment being used in the construction of a permanent structure
are permitted while sales or construction is in progress. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
10-2-9: SITE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All lots shall abut upon a public thoroughfare with at least thirty
feet (30') of frontage unless a variance or planned development project is
approved.
   B.   Only one principal structure shall be located, erected or moved onto
any lot or parcel of land.
   C.   No zoning permit shall be issued for a lot which abuts a public street
dedicated to only a portion of its proposed width, and located on that side
thereof for which the required dedication has not been secured.
   D.   No lot, yard, parking area, building area or other space shall be
reduced in area or dimension so as not to meet the provisions of this title. No
part of any lot, yard, parking area or other space required for a structure or
use shall be used for any other structure or use.
   E.   Any lot in a single ownership, which ownership was of record at the
effective date hereof, that does not meet the requirements of this title for
yards, courts or other area of open space may be utilized for single residence
purposes; provided, the requirements for such yard or court area, width, depth
or open space is within seventy five percent (75%) of that required by the
terms of this title. The purpose of this subsection is to permit utilization of
recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as reasonable living
standards can be provided. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
   F.   No wall, fence or hedge more than four feet (4') in height shall be
permitted in the front yard or side yard abutting a public street. Every wall,
fence or hedge shall be constructed or planted in such a manner that it can be
maintained by the owner or owners without trespassing on the abutting property.
Every wall, fence or hedge shall be set back not less than eighteen inches
(18") from the abutting property line. The decorative side of the fence shall
be facing toward the abutting neighbor's property. (Ord., 11-14-1989)
   G.   No wall, fence or hedge which would obstruct motor vehicle visibility
of traffic approaching the corner or intersection shall be erected, placed or
maintained within a triangular area formed by the intersecting lot lines
nearest the street intersection and a straight line joining said lot lines at
points which are thirty feet (30') distant from the point of intersecting lot
lines 1 .
   H.   The space in any minimum required yard shall be open and unobstructed
except for the ordinary projections of windowsills, belt courses, eaves, roof
overhangs and other architectural features of residential properties; provided,
however, that such features do not project closer than three feet (3') from the
side lot lines. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
   I.   Any accessory building shall be at least five feet (5') from the side
lot line and five feet (5') from the rear lot line; provided, however, where
the accessory building is a private garage used to store one or more passenger
motor vehicles or trucks of three-fourths (3/4) ton or less, access to which
garage is by a public alley only, then the private garage shall be at least
twenty feet (20') from the rear lot line. (Ord., 3-27-1990)
   J.   All overhanging canopies, marquees, awnings and similar structures must
be at least eight feet (8') above a sidewalk at any point, and overhanging
signs must be a minimum of ten feet (10') above the sidewalk at any point. Such
structures cannot project nearer than one foot (1') from any driveway 2 .
(Ord., 8-24-1974; amd. 1977 Code)
   K.   The minimum setback from any portion of a lot bordering a public street
shall be the same as the required front setback for that district. (Ord., 8-24-
1974)
   L.   No satellite receiver dish antennas or microwave receiver dish antennas
shall be permitted in the front yard or side yard abutting a public street, or
be erected, placed or maintained in a manner that would obstruct motor vehicle
visibility of traffic approaching the corner or intersection within a
triangular area formed by the intersecting lot lines nearest the street
intersection and a straight line joining said lot lines at points which are
thirty feet (30') distant from the point of intersecting lot lines 3 . (Ord.,
12-13-1988)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection L of this section and section
1 8-1-18 and subsections
  8-4-5J and K of this code.
  2. See also section
2 8-3-6 of this code and subsection
  10-6-1F1 of this title.
  3. See also subsection G of this section and section
3 8-1-18 and subsections
  8-4-5J and K of this code.
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Rules And Definitions
10-3-1: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular, where the context requires.
   B.   The word "may" is permissive.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "piece", "parcel" and "tract",
and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for", "assigned
for", "maintained for" and "occupied for".
   E.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot; if a
fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or less, the integral foot next below shall be
taken.
   F.   Any word not defined in this section shall be construed in its general
accepted meaning, as defined in the most recent publication of Webster's
Dictionary.
   G.   The words and terms set forth in this section, wherever they occur in
this title, shall be interpreted as herein defined.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or structure attached to or detached
from the main building located in and occupying more than thirty percent (30%)
of the rear yard adjoining the main building, the use of which is incidental to
that of the main building. No accessory building shall be constructed unless
and until the main building has been erected on the premises.
BOARDING HOUSE (ROOMING OR LODGING HOUSE): A residential building or portion
thereof, other than a motel, apartment hotel or hotel, containing lodging rooms
for accommodations of three (3) or more persons who are not members of the
keeper's family, and where lodging or meals, or both, are provided by
prearrangement and for definite periods, at a definite prearranged price.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
equipment, machinery or materials.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of the
finished lot grade along the front yard face of the structure to the highest
point of flat roofs; to the mean height level between the eaves and ridges of
gable, hip and pitch roofs; or to the deck line of mansard roofs.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The extensively developed and evolving plan, also called a
master plan, adopted by the planning commission 1 .
CONSERVATION: Preservation of land, water, flora, fauna and cultural artifacts
in their original state.
CONSUMER SERVICE: Sale of any service to individual customers for their own
personal benefit, enjoyment or convenience. For example, consumer services
include the provision of personal services such as beautician and barbering
services, the provision of lodging, entertainment, specialized instruction,
financial services, transportation, laundry and dry cleaning services, and all
other similar services.
DWELLING: A building designated for residential living purposes and containing
one or more dwelling units and/or lodging units.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A dwelling containing two (2) dwelling units with one
dwelling unit arranged on the same story or stories above the other dwelling
unit.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling which
are used exclusively as living quarters for one family and no more than two (2)
roomers or boarders, and which contain a stove, sink and other kitchen
facilities.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Services provided by public and private utilities necessary
for the exercise of the principal use or service of the principal structure.
These services include underground, surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam,
water, sanitary sewerage, stormwater drainage, and communication systems and
accessories thereto, such as poles, towers, wires, mains, drains, vaults,
culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch basins, water storage tanks, conduits,
pumps, lift stations, hydrants, etc., but not including buildings.
FAMILY: Two (2) or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of
not more than three (3) persons, who need not be related by blood, marriage or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit and occupying a
single dwelling unit; in either case, exclusive of usual domestic servants.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross floor area for each of the several stories
under a roof measured from the exterior limits or faces of a building or
structure. Areas below grade and attached accessory structures are not
included.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of a principal
building enclosed on at least three (3) sides which is intended for and used to
store a private passenger motor vehicle, and no more than one three-fourths (3/
4) ton or lesser sized truck.
GRADE: The highest level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building or structure.
HOME OCCUPATION, PROFESSIONAL: Any business or profession carried on by a
member of the immediate family residing on the premises, in connection with
which: a) there are no signs, other than a permitted nameplate when attached to
a principal building, and no activity that will indicate from the exterior that
the building is being used in whole or in part for any purpose other than that
of dwelling; b) there are no commodities sold or services rendered that require
receipt and delivery of merchandise, goods or equipment by other than a
passenger motor vehicle, or by first class mail; and c) no one outside the home
may be employed.
JUNKYARD: Any land or structure used for salvaging operations including, among
other things, the storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal and
discarded materials, and the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of
unlicensed, inoperative vehicles.
LIGHT INDUSTRY: Light industrial, office and administrative offices having few,
if any, adverse effects on neighboring properties. All processing and storage
shall take place within completely enclosed buildings.
LOADING AREA: A completely off street space or berth on the same lot for the
loading and unloading of freight carriers having adequate ingress and egress to
a public street or alley.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities, and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room providing sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one
lodging room.
LOT: A single parcel of land which may be legally described as such or two (2)
or more adjacent numbered lots or parts of such lots in a recorded subdivision
plat having principal frontage on a street which comprises a site occupied by
or intended for occupancy by one principal building or principal use, together
with accessory buildings and uses, yards and other open spaces required by this
title.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) streets at their juncture, when the
interior angle formed is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES AND AREA: The peripheral boundaries of a parcel of land, and the
total area lying within such boundaries.
LOT, RECORDED: A lot designated on a subdivision plat or deed duly recorded
pursuant to statute in the county recorder's office. A recorded lot may not
coincide with a zoning lot.
LOT WIDTH: The width of a parcel of land measured at the rear of the specified
street yard.
LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land composed of one or more recorded lots occupied or
to be occupied by a principal building or buildings or principal use or uses
along with permitted accessory buildings or uses, meeting all the requirements
for area, building area, frontage, width, yards, setback and any other
requirements set forth in this title.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable unit designed and constructed to be
connected to utilities for year round occupancy and to provide complete,
independent living facilities including provisions for cooking, sleeping and
sanitation. The term includes units containing parts that may be collapsed or
telescoped when being towed and then be expanded to provide additional cubic
capacity, and units composed of two (2) or more separately towable components
being designed to be joined into an integral unit capable of being separated
again into components for repeated towing. Removal of wheels, towing devices or
any other alteration does not qualify a mobile home as a conventional single-
family dwelling unless such alterations enable it to meet the international
building code, 2006 edition.
MOTEL: An establishment consisting of a group of lodging rooms, each with
individual bathroom, and designed for use by transient guests. A motel
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid services and laundering of
linens used in the lodging rooms, telephone and secretarial or desk service,
and the use and upkeep of furniture.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A building or structure or portion thereof, lawfully
existing on the effective date hereof, which was designed, erected or
structurally altered for a use that does not conform to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land on the
effective date hereof, and which does not conform with the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
NONRETAIL COMMERCIAL: Commercial sales and services to customers who intend
resale of the products or merchandise sold or handled. For example, nonretail
commercial includes wholesale activities, warehousing, trucking terminals, and
similar commercial enterprises.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A home for the aged, chronically ill or incurable
persons in which three (3) or more persons not of the immediate family are
received, kept or provided with food and shelter and care for compensation, but
not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to
the diagnosis, treatment or care of the sick or injured.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying or selling
merchandise stored or displayed outside a building prior to sale. Such
merchandise includes, but is not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, motor
scooters, motorcycles, boats, monuments and trailers.
PARKING SPACE: A graded, all weather surface area of not less than two hundred
(200) square feet in area, either enclosed or open, for the parking of a motor
vehicle, having adequate ingress and egress to a public street or alley.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Criteria established to control noise, odor, smoke,
particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosion
hazards or glare or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel or tract of land initially under single ownership
or control, which contains two (2) or more principal buildings and one or more
principal uses, planned and constructed as a unified development.
RETAIL SALES: Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their own
personal consumption or use, not for resale.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A method of disposing of refuse by spreading and covering
such refuse with earth to a depth of two feet (2') or more on the top surface
and one foot (1') or more on the sides of the bank.
SERVICE STATION, FILLING STATION, GAS STATION: Any building or premises which
is used for the dispensing, sale or offering for sale, at retail, of any motor
vehicle fuel or oils. Open storage shall be limited to no more than four (4)
vehicles stored for minor repair bearing current license plates. Such storage
shall not exceed seventy two (72) hours' duration and shall not permit the
storage of wrecked vehicles.
SETBACK, BUILDING: The minimum horizontal distance between the front lines of a
building or structure and the front lot lines.
SIGNS: Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
services, designs, trade names or trademarks by which information is made known
and which are used to advertise or promote an individual, firm, association,
corporation, profession, business, commodity or product, and which are visible
from any public street, highway or pedestrianway.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure such as
bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders; or any substantial
change in the roof or exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground. A sign, billboard or other advertising device detached or
projecting shall be construed to be a structure.
THOROUGHFARE: A street with a high degree of continuity which serves as an
intrastate, an intracounty or interstate highway, or as an arterial trafficway
between various major points of origin-destination. It affords a primary means
of access to abutting properties except from thoroughfares classified as
freeways or other limited access routes not containing frontage roads.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use subordinate to the principal use and located on the same
premises serving a purpose customarily incidental to the principal use.
Residential accessory uses may include storage of household goods, parking
areas, gardening, servants' quarters, private swimming pools, private emergency
shelters, satellite receiver dish antennas and microwave receiver dish
antennas.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use, either public or private, which, because of its unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in any
particular district or districts.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards, if any, of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. It may be either a permitted or conditional use.
UTILITIES: Public and private facilities such as water wells, water and sewage
pumping stations, water storage tanks, power and communication transmission
lines, electrical power substations, static transformer stations, telephone and
telegraph exchanges, microwave radio relays, and gas regulation stations, but
not including sewage disposal plants, municipal incinerators, warehouses, shops
and storage yards.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A side yard which adjoins a street or thoroughfare.
YARD, FRONT (SETBACK): A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot
lines and the front yard line.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another lot.
YARD, REAR (SETBACK): A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, the rear lot
line and the rear yard line.
YARD, SIDE (SETBACK): A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard
line, side yard line and side lot line. (Ord., 8-24-1974; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Districts Established
10-4-2: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
10-4-3: Zoning Map
10-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of this title, all land in the city, and all land and waters
in sections 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 22, 23, and 24, the northeast quarter of
section 27, the northern half of section 26, and the northwest quarter of
section 25 of the township of Mt. Pulaski, Logan County, Illinois, is hereby
divided into districts, as follows:
 
R-1 Residential district
B-1 General business district
B-2 Highway business district
M-1 Limited manufacturing district
M-2 General manufacturing district
A-1 Agricultural district
 
(Ord., 12-23-1975)
10-4-2: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby established as shown on
the map entitled "zoning map, Mt. Pulaski, Illinois", dated August 8, 1974, and
made a part of this title by reference. Such boundaries shall be construed to
follow: corporate limits; U.S. public land survey lines, lot or property lines;
centerlines of streets, highways, alleys, easements and railroad rights of way
or such lines extended; unless otherwise noted on the zoning map.
   B.   All land annexed to the city subsequent to the effective date hereof
shall be automatically made a part of the R-1 district unless the annexation
ordinance places the land in another district. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-4-3: ZONING MAP:
A certified copy of the zoning map shall be adopted and approved with the text
as part of this title, and shall be available to the public in the office of
the city clerk. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
CHAPTER 5
R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Density Requirements
10-5-3: Number Of Structures Per Lot; Parking
10-5-4: Permitted Uses
10-5-5: Accessory Uses
10-5-6: Conditional Uses
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
The R-1 residential district is designed to provide an area for residential
uses and public and semipublic uses normally considered an integral part of the
area they serve. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-5-2: DENSITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum lot width: Sixty feet (60').
   B.   Minimum lot area per family or dwelling unit:
      1.   Single-family: Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet.
      2.   Two-family: Three thousand (3,000) square feet.
      3.   Multi-family: Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
   C.   Minimum required yards for the principal structure:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25') or the average front yard setback
of the existing adjacent structures on both sides, but in no event with less
than twenty five feet (25') allowed or more than forty feet (40') required,
except for subdivisions having established setback lines shown on the plat.
Minimum front yard setbacks shall be required along all sides of the yard with
frontage along a street.
      2.   Side yards: Five feet (5').
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20'). (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-5-3: NUMBER OF STRUCTURES PER LOT; PARKING:
   A.   Number Of Structures Per Lot: Only one principal structure allowed per
lot.
   B.   Parking: One off street parking space per dwelling unit. (Ord., 8-24-
1974)
10-5-4: PERMITTED USES:
Healthcare facilities excluding veterinarian facilities.
Professional, business and government offices.
Public and community facilities such as schools, places of worship, cemeteries,
libraries and recreation facilities.
Public utilities and service uses such as electric substations, gas regulator
stations, telephone transmission structures, pumping stations, transportation
facilities, etc.
Single-family dwellings not including mobile homes.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord., 10-13-1987; amd. 2010 Code)
10-5-5: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Accessory structures shall be located only in the rear and side
yards.
      2.   Construction of the accessory buildings shall not precede
construction of the principal structure. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
   B.   Uses Enumerated:
Home occupation in a single-family dwelling; provided, that such use is
incidental to the main use of a dwelling, and further provided that the use is
limited to persons actually residing in the dwelling.
Private garage and storage building.
Satellite receiver dish antennas and microwave receiver dish antennas, subject
to site restrictions for said accessory uses in subsection
10-2-9L of this title.
Signs advertising premises for sale or rent. (Ord., 8-24-1974; amd. Ord., 12-
13-1988)
10-5-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
Funeral homes.
Mobile homes only in an approved mobile home park.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Publicly owned homes. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
CHAPTER 6
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: B-1 General Business District
10-6-2: B-2 Highway Business District
10-6-1: B-1 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The general business district is established to provide areas
for a wide range of businesses as might be found in the central business
district.
   B.   Density Requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot width: None.
      2.   Minimum lot area: Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
      3.   Minimum required yards:
         a.   Front: None.
         b.   Side: None.
         c.   Rear: Twenty feet (20').
   C.   Parking: No off street parking is required. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
   D.   Permitted Uses:
All those uses permitted in the R-1 district.
Consumer services. Processing is permitted only if all such processing is
performed as a consumer service for customers served on the premises.
Motel, hotel restaurants.
Retail sales. Processing of products is permitted only if products are sold at
retail on the premises.
Single-family, two-family and multiple-family dwellings in conformance with the
minimum lot area, width and setbacks of the R-1 residential district. (Ord., 8-
24-1974; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Light industry. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
   F.   Special Regulations:
      1.   All overhanging canopies, marquees, awnings and similar structures
must be at least eight feet (8') above a sidewalk at any point. Overhanging
signs must be a minimum of ten feet (10') above the sidewalk. Such structures
cannot project nearer than one foot (1') from any driveway or alley 1 . (Ord.,
8-24-1974; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Mobile homes are specifically excluded. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 8-3-6 of this code and subsection
  10-2-9J of this title.
10-6-2: B-2 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Location: The highway business district is established to
provide areas for the location of highway oriented businesses that require more
parking areas and street access. The highway business district shall include
all areas designated as such within the corporate limits of the city, and all
lands and waters within two hundred feet (200') of a federal or state highway
outside the corporate limits but within the jurisdictional areas of the city as
defined in section
10-2-7 of this title. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
   B.   Density Requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot size: Three thousand (3,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum lot width: None.
      3.   Required yards:
         a.   Front: Twenty five feet (25') or the average front yard setback
of the existing adjacent structures on both sides, but in no event will less
than twenty five feet (25') be allowed, or more than forty feet (40') be
required.
         b.   Side: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Rear: Twenty feet (20').
   C.   Parking: One parking space (200 square feet) per two hundred (200)
square feet of gross commercial floor area. One parking space (200 square feet)
per four hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area for furniture, appliance
stores, motor vehicle sales, machinery sales, offices, etc. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
   D.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Within the city limits, all those uses permitted in the B-1 district
except residential dwellings.
      2.   Outside the city limits but within the jurisdictional areas as
defined in section
10-2-7 of this title, all uses permitted in subsection D1 of this section, but
including residential dwellings when used in conjunction with agricultural
operations. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Residential dwellings.
   F.   Special Regulations: Sales services, processing and display may take
place outdoors. However, junkyards are not permitted. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
CHAPTER 7
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: M-1 Limited Manufacturing District
10-7-2: M-2 General Manufacturing District
10-7-1: M-1 LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The limited manufacturing district is created to provide
adequate desirable sites for industrial location and expansion that will not be
disruptive of existing or future residential areas.
   B.   Density Requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot size: None.
      2.   Minimum lot width: None.
      3.   Minimum yards:
         a.   Front: Twenty five feet (25') or the average front yard setback
on the existing adjacent structures on both sides, but in no event will less
than twenty five feet (25') be allowed, or more than forty feet (40') be
required.
         b.   Rear: Twenty feet (20').
         c.   Side: Fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Parking: One parking space (200 square feet) for each employee on the
maximum working shift, plus one for each vehicle used in the conduct of the
enterprise.
   D.   Permitted Uses:
Uses permitted in the B-1 business district, provided they comply with
regulations set forth in that district.
Industry, nonretail commercial, laboratory, offices, metal machining and
fabrication, production work.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Residential dwelling units.
   F.   Special Regulations:
      1.   All processing shall take place within completely enclosed
buildings.
      2.   Storage auxiliary to the principal use is permitted in the open if
such storage activities occupy no more than twenty percent (20%) of the gross
lot area.
      3.   Screening shall be provided at lot boundaries abutting a residential
zoning district and shall consist of solid fencing or dense hedge or shrub to a
minimum of six feet (6') in height. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-7-2: M-2 GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The general manufacturing district is established to provide
areas in which manufacturing and related commercial operations are the
principal use of land. Such uses have some adverse effects on surrounding
properties and are not compatible with residential, institutional and retail
uses.
   B.   Density Requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot size: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum lot width: None.
      3.   Minimum yards:
         a.   Front: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Rear: Twenty feet (20').
         c.   Side: Fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Building height: Thirty five feet (35') or two (2) stories,
whichever is less.
   C.   Parking: One parking space (200 square feet) for each employee on the
maximum working shift, plus one for each vehicle used in the conduct of the
enterprise.
   D.   Permitted Uses:
Uses permitted in all other districts, provided they comply with regulations
set forth in their respective districts, except residential dwelling units
including mobile home parks.
Industry, nonretail commercial, laboratory, offices.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Residential dwellings.
Slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, plants for the processing of animal skins or
hides and plants for the reduction of animal matter.
   F.   Special Regulations:
      1.   Processing and storage may take place within buildings, or outdoors
if screened properly from public view.
      2.   Screening shall be provided at lot boundaries abutting a residential
zoning district and shall consist of solid fencing or dense hedge or shrub to a
minimum of six feet (6') in height.
      3.   The following uses are prohibited: Crematories, fireworks or
explosive manufacture or storage, and dumping. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
CHAPTER 8
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Density Requirements
10-8-3: Accessory Uses
10-8-4: Conditional Uses
10-8-5: Special Regulations
10-8-6: Permitted Uses
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The agricultural district is established to provide areas in which farming is
the principal use of the land. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
10-8-2: DENSITY REQUIREMENTS:
Same as for the R-1 residential district. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
10-8-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Same as for the R-1 residential district; except, that signs incidental to the
use of the occupied land may be erected. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
10-8-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Light industry. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
10-8-5: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
Junkyards, crematories, commercial feedlots, fireworks or explosives
manufacture or storage, mobile homes and mobile home parks are specifically
excluded. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
10-8-6: PERMITTED USES:
Municipal sewage treatment ponds and plants. (Ord., 12-23-1975)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Nonconforming Structures
10-9-2: Nonconforming Uses
10-9-1: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Maintenance Permitted: A nonconforming structure lawfully existing on
the effective date hereof may be maintained except as otherwise provided in
this title.
   B.   Enlargement; Alteration: A nonconforming structure may not be enlarged
or structurally altered to an extent greater than fifty percent (50%) of the
square footage of ground area occupied by said structure. Such addition shall
conform to the use, height, yard and area requirements of the district in which
it is located.
   C.   Rebuilding: A nonconforming structure damaged by fire or other act of
God to an extent the owner feels is unrepairable may be replaced by a similar
new structure which shall not occupy, in square feet of ground area, an area
greater by fifty percent (50%) than the square footage of ground area occupied
by the destroyed or dismantled building. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-9-2: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   A nonconforming use lawfully existing on the effective date hereof may
be continued.
   B.   A nonconforming use may be changed only to a use of the same or more
restrictive classification.
   C.   A nonconforming use shall not be reestablished if discontinued for a
period of six (6) months or the property is sold. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Administrative Officers
10-10-2: Zoning Administrator
10-10-3: Zoning Certificates
10-10-4: Occupancy Certificates
10-10-5: Appeals
10-10-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS:
The administration of this title is hereby vested in the following officers of
the city:
   A.   The office of the zoning administrator.
   B.   The board of appeals 1 .
   C.   The office of the secretary of the board of appeals. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
10-10-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The zoning administrator shall be appointed by the mayor,
with the advice and consent of the city council.
   B.   Duties: The zoning administrator or his duly appointed and acting
assistant shall administer and enforce this title. It shall be the duty of the
zoning administrator to:
      1.   Receive and process applications for zoning certificates for
structures or additions thereto for which building permits are required.
      2.   Receive and process applications for zoning certificates not
accompanied by applications for building permits.
      3.   Receive and process applications for occupancy certificates upon the
completion of structures or when there is a change of use as herein provided.
      4.   Conduct inspections of structures or the use of land to determine
whether there is compliance with this title and, in the case of any violation,
to notify in writing the person or persons in violation, the nature of the
violation and order corrective measures to be taken.
      5.   Maintain in current status the official zoning map.
      6.   Maintain permanent and current records required by this title,
including, but not limited to, zoning certificates, occupancy certificates,
inspections and all official action on appeals, variations and amendments.
      7.   Prepare and submit an annual report to the corporate authorities on
the administration of this title, setting forth such statistical data and
information as may be of interest or value in advancing and furthering the
purposes of this title.
      8.   Prepare and have available in book, pamphlet or map form, on or
before March 31 of each year:
         a.   The compiled text of this title, including all amendments thereto
through the preceding December 31; and
         b.   A zoning map or maps, showing the zoning districts, divisions and
classifications in effect on the preceding December 31.
      9.   Maintain for distribution to the public a supply of copies of the
zoning map or maps, the compiled text of this title, and rules of the zoning
board of appeals. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-10-3: ZONING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Application: No building permit pertaining to the construction, moving,
remodeling or reconstruction of any structure shall be issued by the city
unless an application for a zoning certificate shall first have been made to
and obtained from the zoning administrator. Unless a zoning certificate shall
first have been obtained from the office of the zoning administrator:
      1.   The construction, moving, remodeling or reconstruction of any
structure shall not be commenced;
      2.   The improvement of land preliminary to any use of such land shall
not be commenced; and
      3.   Permits pertaining to the use of land or structures shall not be
issued by any official, officer, employee, department, board or bureau of the
city.
Any application for a building permit that contains the information required by
subsection B of this section and, when applicable, subsection C of this
section, shall be deemed an application for a zoning certificate. Any zoning
certificate issued in conflict with the provisions of this title shall be null
and void.
   B.   Additional Requirements: Every application for a zoning certificate
shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   The certificate of a registered architect or registered structural
engineer licensed by the state of Illinois, or of an owner-designer, that the
proposed construction, remodeling or reconstruction complies with all the
provisions of this title.
      2.   A plat, in duplicate, of the piece or parcel of land, lot, lots,
block or blocks, or parts or portions thereof, drawn to scale, showing the
actual dimensions of the piece or parcel, lot, lots, block or blocks, or parts
or portions thereof, according to the recorded plat of such land.
      3.   A plot plan, in duplicate, drawn to scale and in such form as may,
from time to time, be prescribed by the zoning administrator, showing the
location, ground area, height and bulk of all present and proposed structures,
drives and off street parking and loading spaces, the building lines in
relation to lot lines, waste disposal areas, the use to be made of such present
and proposed structures on the land, and such other information as may be
required by the zoning administrator for the proper enforcement of this title.
One copy of both the plat and the plot plan shall be retained by the zoning
administrator as a public record.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Zoning Certificate: A zoning certificate shall be
either issued or refused by the zoning administrator within fourteen (14) days
after the receipt of an application therefor, or within such further period as
may be agreed to by the applicant. When the zoning administrator refuses to
issue a zoning certificate, he shall advise the applicant in writing of the
reasons for the refusal.
   D.   Period Of Validity: A zoning certificate shall become null and void six
(6) months after the date on which it was issued, unless within such six (6)
month period, construction, moving, remodeling or reconstruction of a structure
is commenced or a use is commenced. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-10-4: OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Required: No structure or addition thereto constructed, moved,
remodeled or reconstructed after the effective date hereof shall be occupied or
used for any purpose and no land vacant on the effective date hereof shall be
used for other uses unless an occupancy certificate shall first have been
obtained from the zoning administrator certifying that the proposed use or
occupancy complies with all the provisions of this title.
   B.   Application For Certificate: Every application for a zoning certificate
shall be deemed to be an application for an occupancy certificate.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificate: No occupancy certificate for a structure or
addition thereto constructed, moved, remodeled or reconstructed after the
effective date hereof shall be issued until such work has been completed,
including off street parking and loading spaces, and the premises has been
inspected by the zoning administrator and determined to be in full and complete
compliance with the plans and specifications upon which the issuance of the
zoning certificate was based. No occupancy certificate for a new use of any
structure or land shall be issued until the premises has been inspected by the
zoning administrator and determined to be in full and complete compliance with
all the applicable regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
Pending the issuance of a permanent occupancy certificate, a temporary
occupancy certificate may be issued, to be valid for a period not to exceed six
(6) months from its date, pending the completion of any addition or during
partial occupancy of the premises. An occupancy certificate shall be issued or
written notice shall be given to the applicant stating the reasons why a
certificate cannot be issued, within fourteen (14) days after the receipt of an
application therefor, or after the zoning administrator is notified in writing
that the structures or premises are ready for occupancy; provided, however,
that the zoning administrator shall have a period of twenty one (21) days
within which to issue or refuse an occupancy certificate on all applications
which are required to comply with the provisions of subsection
10-10-3C of this chapter. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-10-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Scope And Commencement Of Appeal: An appeal from a decision of the
zoning administrator made in interpreting this title may be taken to the board
of appeals by any person aggrieved by said decision or by any officer,
department, board or bureau of the city. Such appeals shall be taken within
forty five (45) days of the action complained of, by filing with the zoning
administrator a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof, and by filing
said appeal and a copy of said notice of appeal with the secretary of the
board.
   B.   Action On Appeal: The board shall select a reasonable time and place
for the public hearing on the appeal, the notice of which shall be published at
least once not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days
before the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, and
shall state the reason for the appeal. The board shall render a written
decision without delay. Upon the concurring vote of four (4) members, the board
may affirm or reverse, in whole or in part, or may modify the decision from
which the appeal was taken, and to that end, the board shall have all the
powers of the zoning administrator with respect to such decision. (Ord., 8-24-
1974; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 11
VARIATIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Authorization
10-11-2: Application For Variation
10-11-3: Hearing And Notice
10-11-4: Authorized Variations
10-11-5: Standards For Variations; Conditions
10-11-6: Decisions On Variations
10-11-7: Period Of Validity
10-11-1: AUTHORIZATION:
The board of appeals may authorize such variations from the terms of this title
as will not be contrary to the public interest. Variations may be authorized
only in those specific instances enumerated in section
10-11-4 of this chapter, and then only when the board has made findings of
fact, based upon the standards set out in section
10-11-5 of this chapter, that, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this title will, in an individual case, result
in practical difficulties or particular hardship for the owner, lessee or
occupant of land or a structure. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-11-2: APPLICATION FOR VARIATION:
An application for a variation shall be filed in duplicate with the zoning
administrator who shall forward without delay a copy to the secretary of the
board. The application shall contain the following information as well as such
additional information as may be prescribed by rule of the board:
   A.   The particular requirements of this title which prevent the proposed
use or construction;
   B.   The characteristics of the subject property which prevent compliance
with said requirements of this title;
   C.   The reduction of the minimum requirements of this title which would be
necessary to permit the proposed use or construction; and
   D.   The practical difficulty or particular hardship which would result if
said particular requirements of this title were applied to the subject
property. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-11-3: HEARING AND NOTICE:
The board of appeals shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing.
Public notice of such hearing shall be published at least once not less than
fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days before such hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. Such notice shall contain the
date, time and place of the hearing, the street address or common description
of the property involved, the legal description of the property involved, and a
brief description of the relief sought. Any party in interest may appear and be
heard at the hearing in person, by agent or by attorney. (Ord., 8-24-1974; amd.
2010 Code)
10-11-4: AUTHORIZED VARIATIONS:
Variations from the regulations of this title shall be granted only in
accordance with the standards set out in section
10-11-5 of this chapter and may be granted only in the following instances, and
in no others:
   A.   To vary the applicable lot area, lot width and lot depth requirements,
subject to the following limitations:
      1.   The minimum lot width and lot depth requirements shall not be
reduced more than twenty five percent (25%).
      2.   The minimum lot area for a single-family and two-family dwelling
shall not be reduced more than twenty percent (20%).
      3.   The minimum lot per dwelling unit requirements for multiple-family
dwellings shall not be reduced so as to permit more than one dwelling unit in
addition to the number that would be permitted by strict application of the
minimum lot area requirements.
   B.   To vary the applicable bulk regulations, including maximum height,
maximum lot coverage, maximum floor area ratio, and minimum yard requirements.
   C.   To vary the applicable off street parking and off street loading
requirements contained in this title.
   D.   To vary the regulations relating to restoration of damaged or destroyed
nonconforming structures or uses contained in this title. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-11-5: STANDARDS FOR VARIATIONS; CONDITIONS:
The board of appeals shall not vary the regulations of this title unless it
shall be based upon the evidence as presented that:
   A.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted
to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   B.   The proposed variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the
applicant but will alleviate some demonstrable and unusual hardship which will
result if the strict letter of the regulations were carried out and which is
not generally applicable to property within the same district.
   C.   The alleged hardship has not been created by any person presently
having a proprietary interest in the premises.
   D.   The proposed variation will not be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood.
   E.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light and
air to adjacent property, substantially increase congestion in the public
streets, increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety.
   F.   The proposed variation will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
   G.   The proposed variation is in harmony with the spirit and intent of this
title.
The board of appeals may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the
location, construction, design and use of the property benefited by a variation
as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with the foregoing standards and
to protect adjacent property and property values. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-11-6: DECISIONS ON VARIATIONS:
The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board of appeals shall be
necessary to grant a variation. The order of the board shall be by written
resolution and shall contain its findings of fact. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-11-7: PERIOD OF VALIDITY:
No decision granting a variation shall be valid for a period longer than twelve
(12) months from the date of decision unless: a) an application for a zoning
certificate is obtained within such period and construction, moving, remodeling
or reconstruction is started; or b) an occupancy certificate is obtained and a
use is commenced. The board may grant additional extensions of time not
exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days each, upon written application made
within the initial twelve (12) month period, without further notice of hearing,
but said right to so extend said time shall not include the right to grant
additional relief by expanding the scope of the variation. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
CHAPTER 12
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Authorization
10-12-2: Application For Conditional Use
10-12-3: Standards
10-12-4: Report Of Hearing
10-12-5: Conditions
10-12-6: Action By Corporate Authorities
10-12-1: AUTHORIZATION:
The location, construction, extension or structural alteration of any use for
which a conditional use permit is required pursuant to the provisions of this
title may be authorized by a permit issued by the corporate authorities,
subject to the standards set forth in section
10-12-3 of this chapter and such conditions as may be imposed pursuant to
section
10-12-5 of this chapter. Prior to such authorization, a public hearing shall be
held and a published notice shall be given, in the manner prescribed for
amendments by chapter 13 of this title. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-12-2: APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE:
Any person having proprietary interest in the premises may file an application
for a conditional use with the zoning administrator. The application shall be
in such number of copies, be in such form and contain such information as the
zoning administrator may prescribe from time to time. The zoning administrator
shall process such application in the manner prescribed for amendments by
chapter 13 of this title. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-12-3: STANDARDS:
A conditional use permit shall be granted only in the event that:
   A.   The conditional use will serve the public convenience at the location.
   B.   The location and size of the conditional use, the nature and intensity
of the operation involved in or conducted in connection therewith, the size of
the site in relation thereto and the location of the site with respect to
streets giving access thereto shall be such that it will be in harmony with the
appropriate and orderly development of the district in which it is located.
   C.   The nature, location and size of the building or structure and the
nature and extent of the landscaping on the site shall be such that the
conditional use will not substantially hinder or discourage the appropriate
development and use of adjacent land and buildings.
   D.   Parking areas shall be of adequate size for the particular use,
properly located, and suitably screened from adjoining residential uses, and
the entrance and exit drives shall be laid out so as to prevent traffic hazards
and nuisances.
   E.   The proposed conditional use will not be detrimental to the health and
welfare of the public or injurious to other property and improvements in the
neighborhood. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-12-4: REPORT OF HEARING:
Following the hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall transmit to the
corporate authorities a written report giving its findings as to compliance of
the proposed conditional use with the standards governing conditional uses and
giving its recommendations for action to be taken by the corporate authorities.
(Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-12-5: CONDITIONS:
The zoning board of appeals may recommend and the corporate authorities may
impose such conditions or restrictions upon the location, construction, design
and operation of a conditional use, including, but not limited to, provisions
for off street parking spaces and the duration of such permit, as they shall
respectively find necessary or appropriate to secure compliance with the
standards set forth in section
10-12-3 of this chapter. (Ord., 8-24-1974; amd. 2010 Code)
10-12-6: ACTION BY CORPORATE AUTHORITIES:
After receiving the report of the zoning board of appeals, the corporate
authorities shall review the report and may accept the findings and
recommendations of the zoning board of appeals, in whole or in part, or may
reject them, in whole or in part, or may refer the matter back to the zoning
board of appeals for further consideration. However, in the event the zoning
board of appeals recommends against the issuance of a conditional use permit,
then it may be issued only upon the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all
of the members of the city council. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
CHAPTER 13
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Authorization
10-13-2: Initiation Of Amendment
10-13-3: Application For Amendment
10-13-4: Notice Of Hearing
10-13-5: Report Of Hearing
10-13-6: Action By Corporate Authorities
10-13-1: AUTHORIZATION:
The regulations imposed and districts created by this title may be amended by
ordinance from time to time in the manner provided by this chapter and the
applicable Illinois statutes. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-13-2: INITIATION OF AMENDMENT:
Amendments may be proposed in writing by the corporate authorities, by the plan
commission, by any person having a proprietary interest in property in the city
or by any interested citizen of the city. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-13-3: APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT:
An application for an amendment shall be filed with the zoning administrator
who shall forward a copy of the same to the corporate authorities without
delay. The application shall be filed in such number of copies, be in such form
and contain such information as the corporate authorities may prescribe from
time to time. The corporate authorities shall refer said application to the
zoning board of appeals for the purpose of conducting a public hearing thereon.
(Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-13-4: NOTICE OF HEARING:
The zoning board of appeals shall publish public notice of the hearing on each
proposed amendment at least once not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than
thirty (30) days before such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city. (Ord., 8-24-1974; amd. 2010 Code)
10-13-5: REPORT OF HEARING:
Following a public hearing held before the zoning board of appeals, said board
shall transmit to the corporate authorities a report thereon containing its
findings of fact and recommendations for action to be taken by the corporate
authorities. (Ord., 8-24-1974)
10-13-6: ACTION BY CORPORATE AUTHORITIES:
After receiving the report of the zoning board of appeals, the corporate
authorities shall review the report and may pass the proposed amendment with or
without change, may reject it, or may recommit it to the zoning board of
appeals for further consideration. If a written protest against any proposed
amendment, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
property proposed to be altered or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
property immediately adjoining the property proposed to be altered or across an
alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the property
directly opposite the property to be altered is filed with the city clerk, such
amendment shall not be passed except upon the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/
3) of all of the members of the corporate authorities. In such cases, a copy of
the written protest shall be served by the protestor or protestors on the
applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant's attorney,
if any, by certified mail at the address of such applicant and attorney shown
in the application for the proposed amendment. (Ord., 8-24-1974; amd. 2010
Code)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as and may be cited as the MT. PULASKI SUBDIVISION
TITLE. (1977 Code)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is hereby made a part of official city plan for the city of Mt.
Pulaski, Illinois. It is to provide for the improvement of public health and
safety; for the harmonious development of the city and its environs; for the
coordination of streets in new subdivisions with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the official city plan; for adequate open
space for traffic, schools, recreation and air; for adequate stormwater
drainage and sewage disposal; for the efficient and economical maintenance of
streets; and for the development of public grounds. (1977 Code)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following words, terms, phrases, and their
derivations, shall have the meanings given in this section. The word "shall" is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
ALLEY: A public way used primarily as a service access to the rear or side of a
property which abuts on a street.
ARTERIAL STREET: A major or secondary street that links collector streets with
each other or with major thoroughfares. An arterial street can be a primary
access route or a minor highway.
BLOCK: The distance as measured along a street between intersecting streets
from centerline to centerline, and where the context requires, the term also
means the enclosed area within the perimeter of the streets or property lines
enclosing it.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so
designated on the preliminary plan, between which line and the adjacent street
the erection of an enclosed structure is prohibited.
CERTIFICATE OF REVIEW: An official letter of notification written by the chair
of the plan commission to the subdivider advising him of the review, approval
or disapproval, with an itemized statement of the deficiencies if disapproved,
of his subdividing the area indicated on the location map.
CIRCULATION PLAN: The portion of the Mt. Pulaski comprehensive plan providing
and planning for the present and future street system of the city and environs.
CITY ENGINEER: The professional engineer appointed or designated by the city
council.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street that serves as a connection between a thoroughfare
and several minor residential, industrial or commercial streets. The term
includes the principal entrance streets of a residential development and
principal circulating streets within such a development.
CUL-DE-SAC (DEAD END STREET): A minor street with only one outlet.
CURB AND GUTTER: A permanent type pavement edging.
DEAD END STREET: See definition of Cul-De-Sac (Dead End Street).
DRAINAGE COURSE: A natural watercourse or indenture for the drainage of surface
waters.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner of the specific use of said land to the
public generally or to a person or persons.
FINAL PLAN OR FINAL PLAT: The engineering drawing of a subdivision prepared in
the manner and containing the data, documents and information required by
chapter 6 of this title.
FREEHAND SKETCH: The penciled or rough drawing showing approximate street and
lot layout superimposed upon a contour map of the proposed subdivision or
greater area as suggested by chapter 4 of this title.
HALF STREET: A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of land
in which the subdivider has allocated but part of the ultimate right of way
width in accordance with the requirements as set forth in chapter 7 of this
title.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Illinois state public health department director or his
authorized representative.
LOCATION MAP: A preliminary map or drawing of a proposed subdivision containing
the data as required by chapter 4 of this title.
LOOP STREET: Any discontinuous minor street having only two (2) outlets to one
other street. A "loop street" does not connect with more than one street.
LOT: The tract of land within a subdivision marked by the subdivider as a
numbered, lettered or otherwise identifiable tract of land to be offered as a
unit for sale or transfer of ownership or for building development.
LOT, BUTT: A lot at the end of a block and located between two (2) corner lots.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
(2) substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to a
thoroughfare and which provides access from the thoroughfare to abutting
property and protection from through traffic.
MINOR STREET: A street of relatively short length and limited continuity that
provides direct access to a limited number of abutting properties and for the
local needs of a neighborhood and is designed to discourage use by through
traffic.
OFFICIAL PLAN: The composite of the functional and geographic elements of the
comprehensive city plan or any segment thereof in the form of plans, maps,
charts and textual materials adopted by the city council.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, trust, corporation or
any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land
sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the
same under this title.
PEDESTRIANWAY (PUBLIC CROSSWALK): A public right of way across or within a
block designed primarily for use by pedestrian traffic.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, trust, corporation or
any other legal entity.
PLAN COMMISSION: The city council.
PRELIMINARY PLAN: The tentative map, drawing or chart of a proposed subdivision
of greater area prepared in the manner and containing the data, documents and
information required by chapter 5 of this title.
PRIVATE STREET: An undedicated street which is privately owned and maintained.
PROTECTED COVENANTS: Contracts entered into between private parties that
constitute a restriction on the use of all private property within a
subdivision for the benefit of property owners and to provide mutual protection
against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to impair stability
of values.
PUBLIC CROSSWALK: See definition of Pedestrianway (Public Crosswalk).
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrianway, planting strip, off street
parking area, or other facility for which the city may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation.
SANITARY SEWER: A constructed conduit for the carrying of sewerage, other than
stormwaters, to a sewerage treatment plant.
STORM SEWER: A constructed conduit for carrying stormwaters to a drainage
course.
SUBDIVIDE: See definition of Subdivision Of Land.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS: The guides, principles and specifications for the
preparation of subdivision plans indicating, among other things, the maximum
and minimum dimensions of the various elements set forth in the preliminary
plan.
SUBDIVISION OF LAND: The division of land or a tract of land into two (2) or
more parts, lots or parcels; any division of land when a new street is involved
for the purpose of sale, transfer of ownership or building development. The
term "subdivision" includes resubdivision and the division of a lot or parcel,
any of which is less than five (5) acres in area. The following shall not be
deemed a subdivision:
   A.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land on record and
existing on or before July 17, 1959, into no more than two (2) parts and not
involving any new streets or easements of access.
   B.   Public acquisition of streets or other rights of way which results in a
parcel or parcels of less than five (5) acres.
   C.   Alteration of the lot lines in an approved subdivision, provided the
provisions of this title or any other applicable ordinances are not violated.
THOROUGHFARE: A major or secondary street or road which is a public right of
way with a high degree of continuity that serves as an arterial trafficway to
the various districts of the city, as designated by the official city plan.
(1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Inspection At Subdivider's Expense
11-2-2: Fees
11-2-3: Review Of Adverse Plan Commission Decisions
11-2-4: Variations And Exceptions
11-2-5: Enforcement
11-2-6: Record Of Plats
11-2-7: Separability
11-2-1: INSPECTION AT SUBDIVIDER'S EXPENSE:
All required improvements to be installed under the provisions of this title
shall be inspected at the subdivider's expense. A registered professional
engineer or registered land surveyor, approved by the city council, as agent
for the subdivider or owner, shall conduct an inspection on the job during the
process of construction. When the work is completed, the registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor shall certify to the city
council that the work complies in all respects with the approved plans and
specifications. (1977 Code)
11-2-2: FEES:
In order to cover the costs of examining plans and other expenses incidental to
the approval of a subdivision, the subdivider shall pay the following fees:
(1977 Code)
   A.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) to the city clerk for submitting the
preliminary plan for the subdivision.
   B.   Ten dollars ($10.00) per lot, with a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00),
to the city clerk at the time of recordation of each final plan. (1977 Code;
amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   There shall be no refund of any portion of the above fees once the
subdivider has paid said fees to the city clerk. (1977 Code)
11-2-3: REVIEW OF ADVERSE PLAN COMMISSION DECISIONS:
If the plan commission decides that the areas shown on a location map, or part
thereof, may not be subdivided or disapproves a preliminary plan or final plan,
the subdivider may file with the city clerk a petition to the city council for
review of such decision of the plan commission, pointing out those parts of the
decision to which the subdivider objects. In such event, a public hearing on
the sufficiency or propriety of said location map, preliminary plan or final
plan shall be conducted by the city council after notice thereof has been
mailed by the city clerk at least one week before the hearing to the person or
persons who requested the review; provided, however, that any matter which was
the subject to a previous hearing before the city council in connection with
the same proposed subdivision shall not be the subject of a second hearing.
After the conclusion of any such hearing, the city council may affirm or modify
the order or decision of the commission, or approve the location map,
preliminary plan or final plan. If a location map or preliminary plan is so
approved by the mayor and city council, the subdivider shall proceed before the
plan commission with the next step provided by this title. (1977 Code)
11-2-4: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Variations:
      1.   The plan commission may recommend a variation from the requirements
of the subdivision planning procedure or required improvements in specific
cases when the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size, shape or
character or is surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the
strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result in
substantial hardship or injustice, or when a comprehensive group housing
development is proposed. In recommending any variation, the plan commission
shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land, the existing
use of land in the vicinity, the population in the proposed subdivision and the
probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the
vicinity, and shall recommend only those variations that will allow the
subdivider to develop his property in a reasonable manner and that will at the
same time preserve the general intent and spirit of this title and protect the
public welfare and interests of the city and the surrounding area.
      2.   Application for any variation shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider at the time the preliminary plan is filed and shall state fully the
grounds for the application and the facts relied upon by the petition. The plan
commission shall consider such application at the review of the preliminary
plan and give its written recommendation thereon, with the reasons therefor, at
the time of its approval or disapproval of said plan.
   B.   Exceptions; Minor Subdivisions:
      1.   The final plan, in the form of the original tracing and three (3)
prints, of any proposed division of a parcel of land along an existing public
street not involving the opening, widening or extending of any street or road
or the construction of public utilities, and which results in creating no more
than five (5) lots may be submitted as outlined in chapter 5 of this title for
acceptance along with the number of copies of the location map as required in
chapter 4 of this title to the plan commission and without following the
procedures outlined in chapters 3 and 5 of this title.
      2.   Should the plan commission be satisfied that the proposed final plan
is not contrary to applicable platting, subdividing or zoning regulations, it
may approve such subdivision. The procedures following plan commission approval
shall be in accord with the requirements in chapter 6 of this title. (1977
Code)
11-2-5: ENFORCEMENT:
No plat of any subdivision may be entitled to be recorded in the county
recorder's office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in a
manner prescribed in these regulations. (1977 Code)
11-2-6: RECORD OF PLATS:
All of such plats of subdivision, after the same have been submitted and
approved as provided in this title, shall be filed and kept by the county
recorder in the appropriate sections of the records of Logan County, Illinois.
(1977 Code)
11-2-7: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this title
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-3-1: Scope
11-3-2: Location Map Submitted
11-3-3: Preliminary Plan Approved
11-3-4: Approval Of Final Plan
11-3-1: SCOPE:
To subdivide any land into lots and blocks (with the exceptions noted in
section
11-1-3 of this title, definition of "subdivision of land"), an owner or
subdivider shall follow the procedure noted in this chapter. (1977 Code)
11-3-2: LOCATION MAP SUBMITTED:
Before preparation of a preliminary plan, the subdivider shall, in the manner
outlined in chapter 4 of this title, submit seven (7) prints of a location map
to the city plan commission for review and advice concerning the relationship
of the official city plan to the proposed subdivision. Within thirty (30) days
of the receipt of this map from the subdivider, the chair of the plan
commission shall prepare a certificate of review advising on the suitability of
the proposed site for subdivision. A freehand sketch of the subdivision layout
may be submitted with the location map as described in chapter 4 of this title.
(1977 Code)
11-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVED:
Within twelve (12) months of the receipt of the above noted certificate of
review, the subdivider shall file with the city plan commission seven (7)
prints of a preliminary plan as called for in chapter 5 of this title for
referral to city officials, and he shall also pay the required filing fee.
In the event the subdivision plan involves special problems or is in conflict
with the plan commission's proposals, the chair of the plan commission shall
notify the owner or subdivider as to the time and place of the plan
commission's meeting, at which time he will be afforded an opportunity of being
heard. The plan commission shall then approve or disapprove the preliminary
plan at its next regular meeting; provided, however, that if the preliminary
plan does not conform to the requirements set forth, the plan commission may
request the subdivider to make such changes as may be necessary and thereupon
approve the same. Upon approval of the preliminary plan, the notice of approval
of the preliminary plan, signed by the plan commission chair, shall be placed
upon two (2) copies thereof, one approved or conditionally approved copy to be
returned to the subdivider within thirty (30) days following the plan
commission action, with the other to be retained by the plan commission. (1977
Code)
11-3-4: APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAN:
Within twelve (12) months after the approval of the preliminary plan, the final
plan shall be submitted to the plan commission for its recommendation and
review. The plan commission shall then approve or disapprove the final plat.
The subdivider shall submit the original tracing and three (3) prints of the
final plat, which must retain the overall characteristics of the preliminary
plan, and he shall install the required improvements or furnish a completion
bond assuring installation of the same prior to final plat approval, as
provided in chapter 9 of this title.
Where less than the entire land area shown on the preliminary plan is to be
filed for record, such recordation shall automatically extend the approval of
the unrecorded balance of the preliminary plan for one successive twelve (12)
month period. Subsequently, an extension of time may be granted annually by the
plan commission upon written request to continue approval of the unrecorded
balance of the original preliminary plan. Otherwise, the plan submitted may be
considered a new preliminary plan.
No plat shall be recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of Logan
County, Illinois, unless and until approval by the city council has been
endorsed thereon by the mayor and the city clerk, and no lot shall be sold from
such plat unless and until the plat is endorsed by the mayor and filed for
record in the office of the recorder of deeds of Logan County, Illinois.
The final plat shall be presented for recording to the recorder of deeds within
twelve (12) months after approval by the city council. Any plat that is not so
filed within the period shall not be entitled to recordation without approval
by the city council. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 4
LOCATION MAP
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose
11-4-2: Requirements
11-4-3: Method Of Filing
11-4-4: Review
11-4-5: Freehand Sketch
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the location map is to permit the subdivider an opportunity to
determine whether or not the tract of land he proposes to subdivide is proper
for such development. The subdivider will receive assistance concerning the
relationship of the land he proposes for subdividing with the Mt. Pulaski
official city plan and other plans or public improvements which affect the
area. (1977 Code)
11-4-2: REQUIREMENTS:
The location map shall consist of necessary data added to an existing township
map or any other map that covers an area of not less than one mile radius from
the tract proposed for development. The scale of the location map shall be
three inches (3") to the mile. The location map shall provide the following
information:
   A.   The title of the subdivision, a graphic scale (3 inches to 1 mile), a
north arrow and date.
   B.   The name(s) and address(es) of the subdivider, engineer and surveyor.
   C.   The outline of the area to be subdivided with approximate boundary
dimensions and total acreage within the proposed subdivision.
   D.   The existing and proposed roads, utilities and other public facilities
expected to service the area.
   E.   A method of providing utilities. (1977 Code)
11-4-3: METHOD OF FILING:
Seven (7) prints of the location map shall be submitted to the chair of the
plan commission by any person preparing to subdivide land and before submitting
the preliminary plan referred to in chapter 5 of this title. The chair shall
immediately transmit one print of the location map to the superintendent of the
Mt. Pulaski School District, one print to the county superintendent of
highways, one print to the Mt. Pulaski township highway commissioner and, at
his discretion, transmit other prints to those parties or agencies he deems
interested in the proposed development while retaining the remaining prints for
his file. (1977 Code)
11-4-4: REVIEW:
Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a location map or any amendment
thereof, the chair shall return one print of said location map to the
subdivider either with a certificate indicating that the location map is
sufficient and that the area is one proper for subdividing, or with an itemized
statement of deficiencies in said location map or specific reasons why said
area or parts thereof may not be subdivided. The subdivider may submit an
amended location map directly to the chair of the plan commission for decision.
A certificate reviewing a location map does not constitute an acceptance of any
preliminary or final plan. (1977 Code)
11-4-5: FREEHAND SKETCH:
Along with the location map, this title suggests a rough sketch of the proposed
subdivision be submitted to the chair of the plan commission. The rough sketch
should show the approximate street and lot layout superimposed upon a
topographical map of the area. The freehand sketch is intended to save the
subdivider time and money and to develop a working relationship between the
subdivider and the reviewing agencies.
It is suggested that a freehand sketch contain:
   A.   A rough (pencil) sketch of the proposed street and lot layout.
   B.   The location of all land owned or under option by the subdivider
adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
   C.   The approximate location of all existing features on the site which may
have an effect upon the overall design (building, trees, roads, watercourses,
hills, etc.). (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PRELIMINARY PLAN
SECTION:
11-5-1: Preparation
11-5-2: Requirements
11-5-3: Method Of Filing
11-5-4: Review
11-5-5: Approval
11-5-6: Disapproval
11-5-1: PREPARATION:
Within twelve (12) months after obtaining a certificate of review approving the
location map, any subdivider proposing to subdivide the land described in said
location map, or portion thereof, shall prepare and submit seven (7) prints of
the preliminary plan to the city clerk for transmission to the plan commission.
(1977 Code)
11-5-2: REQUIREMENTS:
The preliminary plan shall show the following:
   A.   Identification And Description:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision or title under which it is to
be recorded (not duplicating a name of any plat heretofore recorded in Logan
County).
      2.   The names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, engineer and
registered land surveyor.
      3.   The north point and graphic (engineering) scale of one inch to one
hundred feet (1" = 100').
      4.   The date of preparation.
      5.   A note stating "Preliminary Plan, Not to be Recorded by the Recorder
of Deeds".
   B.   Existing Conditions:
      1.   The boundary line of the proposed subdivision clearly indicated and
the total approximate acreage therein.
      2.   The locations, widths and names of all existing or previously
platted streets or other public ways, showing type of improvements, if any,
railroad and utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces,
permanent buildings and structures, easements, and section and township lines
within the tract and to a distance of two hundred feet (200') beyond the
proposed subdivision.
      3.   The location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities within the proposed subdivision and to a distance
of two hundred feet (200') beyond.
      4.   Topographic data including existing contours at vertical intervals
of not more than two feet (2') unless a greater interval is required to
properly depict rough terrain. Topographic data shall refer to the United
States geological North American datum – mean sea level elevation.
Watercourses, marshes, rock outcrops, other significant features and soil
boring data at location and depths may be required by the plan commission.
      5.   Zoning classification for, and adjacent to, the tract.
   C.   Subdivision Design Features:
      1.   Layout of streets, showing right of way widths and street names.
Public streets shall be required in all subdivisions.
      2.   Location and widths of alleys, pedestrianways, utility easements,
lots and setback lines.
      3.   Areas intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
indicating, in each, the approximate area in acreage.
      4.   Layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots to the nearest foot.
Letters shall not be used for identification of lots or blocks.
      5.   Minimum front and side street building lines, with dimensions
indicated.
      6.   Areas other than streets, alleys, pedestrianways and easements
intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use; for each, the approximate
area in acres shall be indicated. (1977 Code)
11-5-3: METHOD OF FILING:
The subdivider shall file in the office of the city clerk, within one year
after receipt of certificate of review, six (6) prints of the preliminary plan
for the proposed subdivision, with the required filing fee as outlined in
section
11-2-2 of this title. After stamping the file number on all prints, the city
clerk shall retain one print for his file and transmit one print to the county
superintendent of highways, one print to the Mt. Pulaski township highway
commissioner and the three (3) remaining prints to the plan commission. It
shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide the utility company or
companies serving the area with the necessary number of prints. The filing fee
is as provided in section
11-2-2 of this title. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
11-5-4: REVIEW:
The preliminary plan shall be reviewed by the plan commission. In the event
that the preliminary plan involves special problems, or is in conflict with the
official city plan, the plan commission chair shall inform the owner or
subdivider of said problems and conflict and shall advise him of the time and
place for hearing before the plan commission. (1977 Code)
11-5-5: APPROVAL:
If, at its next meeting after the subdivision committee review, the plan
commission as a whole shall find that such proposed plan satisfies the
requirements of this title, the chair of the plan commission shall endorse
approval thereon in substantially the following language:
The proposed plan of subdivision herein is approved and the Plan Commission now
is ready to receive the final plan of said subdivision for consideration. This
is NOT an approval of the final plan.
DATED                    
CITY OF MT. PULASKI PLAN COMMISSION
BY:                    
Chair
One print of the preliminary plan so endorsed shall be returned to the
subdivider by personal delivery or by mail, and one print so endorsed shall be
retained on file in the office of the plan commission. (1977 Code)
11-5-6: DISAPPROVAL:
If the plan commission as a whole shall find that such proposed plan does not
satisfy the requirements and intentions of this title, it shall specify its
objections by written findings and order, and the plan commission may thereupon
disapprove such preliminary plan or may recommend approval thereof conditioned
upon specific changes in the proposed plan to remove its objections.
One print of the proposed plan, together with the findings and order of the
plan commission upon the hearing, either disapproving the preliminary plan or
approving it upon condition as aforesaid, shall be retained by the plan
commission and one print with said findings and order shall be delivered to the
subdivider in person or by mail.
A subdivider may submit to the plan commission an amended preliminary plan for
the purpose of complying with any order of the plan commission. In such event,
seven (7) prints thereof shall be so filed.
No plan shall be approved for subdivision which is subject to periodic flooding
or which contains extremely poor drainage facilities. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which shall, in the opinion of the plan
commission, make the area completely safe for residential occupancy and provide
adequate drainage, the preliminary plan of the subdivision may be approved.
(1977 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL PLAN
SECTION:
11-6-1: Preparation
11-6-2: Requirements
11-6-3: Details
11-6-4: Approval
11-6-5: Plan Commission Action
11-6-6: Council Approval
11-6-7: Recordation
11-6-8: Acceptance Of Streets
11-6-1: PREPARATION:
Receipt by the subdivider of the print of the preliminary plan approved by the
plan commission shall constitute authority for the subdivider to proceed with
further plans and specifications for installation of required land improvements
and the minimum design and layout standards established by this title.
The final plan may, at the discretion of the subdivider, constitute only such
portion of the tract covered in the preliminary plan as the subdivider proposes
to record and develop. The remaining portion of the preliminary plan shall
receive an automatic time extension of one year to be submitted in final form
after approval of the initial portion of the tract. A further extension of time
may be granted annually by the plan commission upon written request to continue
approval of the unrecorded portion of the original preliminary plan where
circumstances affecting further subdivisions under said plan have not
substantially changed. If no final plan or no portion of the original
preliminary plan has been submitted for approval and no written request to
continue approval of the unrecorded portion of the original preliminary plan
has been submitted within one year after the preliminary plan is approved, said
preliminary plan shall be resubmitted by the subdivider for review and approval
by the plan commission prior to the submission of a final plan. (1977 Code)
11-6-2: REQUIREMENTS:
The final plan shall conform to the streets, alleys and public open space
requirements of the Mt. Pulaski official city plan. All information, except
topographic data, required on the preliminary plan shall be shown accurately,
and drawn with black ink on heavy transparent tracing paper or cloth in a
manner that clear and legible contact prints or photostatic copies may be made.
Said final plan shall be drawn to a scale of not more than one hundred feet to
the inch (100' = 1") and shall be submitted to the plan commission with three
(3) additional prints thereof. It shall contain one sheet having dimensions not
to exceed eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24"). (1977 Code)
11-6-3: DETAILS:
The final plan of the subdivision shall show:
   A.   The name of the subdivision, a graphic (engineering) scale, a north
point, the name of the owner(s) and the subdivider(s) and the date.
   B.   A correct legal description of the plat.
   C.   Boundary lines with accurate distance and angles.
   D.   Lines of all proposed streets and alleys with their widths and names.
   E.   Line of departure of one street from another.
   F.   Names of streets and widths of proposed and adjoining streets and
alleys.
   G.   All lots designated by number.
   H.   Location of all easements provided for public use, service or
utilities. Easements shall include anchor space for pole lines.
   I.   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating the
boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, alleys, easements and other areas
for public or private use. Linear dimensions are to be given to the nearest
one-hundredth foot (0.01').
   J.   Radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency and central angles for all
curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners.
   K.   Location of all survey monuments and their description.
   L.   Accurate outline of any portions of the property intended to be
dedicated or granted for public use and the designation of such.
   M.   Acknowledgment of the plat by the owner(s) and spouse(s),  if any, or a
duly authorized attorney and a notary public. Sample certificates are as
follows and may be included on the final plan or attached thereto:
   CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF LOGAN   )
This is to certify that the undersigned is the owner of the land described in
the plat, and that he (she) has caused the same to be surveyed and subdivided
as indicated hereon, for the uses and purposes herein set forth, and does
hereby acknowledge and adopt the same under the style and title hereon
indicated.
Dated                Day of                A.D. 20  .
   (Address)         
   CERTIFICATION OF NOTARY PUBLIC
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF LOGAN   )
I,                    a Notary Public in and for the County of              
in the State of                do hereby certify that                        
personally known to me to be the same person(s) whose name(s) is (are)
subscribed to the foregoing instrument, appeared before me this day in person
and (severally) acknowledged that he (they) signed, sealed and delivered said
instrument as his (their) free and voluntary act for the use and purposes
therein set forth.
Given under my hand Notarial Seal this                day of              
A.D., 20  .
   Notary Public         
   N.   Certification by a registered Illinois land surveyor attesting to the
accuracy of the survey and the correct location of all monuments; sample
certificate as follows:
   CERTIFICATION BY THE SURVEYOR
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF LOGAN   )
This is to certify that I,                          Illinois Land Surveyor No.
    , have surveyed and subdivided the following described property: (Legal
description) as shown on this plat which is a correct representation of said
survey and subdivision. All distances are shown in feet and decimals thereof. I
further certify that all regulations enacted by the City Council relative to
plats of subdivision have been complied with in the preparation of this plan.
Given under my hand and Seal at                         , Illinois this        
       day of                A.D., 20  .
   O.   Certification that approval by the state of Illinois department of
public health has been given; sample certificate as follows:
   CERTIFICATION BY STATE OF ILLINOIS
   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
STATE OF ILLINOIS ) SS
I,                          do hereby certify that the plans and specifications
of the required improvements covering a sanitary sewerage system and/or sewer
lines and domestic water supply system and/or distribution lines prepared by a
registered professional engineer have been examined by me and found to comply
with the requirements as set forth in the regulations of the State of Illinois,
Department of Public Health with the following exceptions.
Dated this                day of                A.D., 20  .
   Health Officer         
   P.   Certification by the county clerk that all taxes and special
assessments have been paid up to date; sample certification as follows:
   CERTIFICATION BY THE COUNTY CLERK
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF LOGAN   )
I,                         , County Clerk of Logan County, Illinois, hereby
certify that I find no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current general taxes,
delinquent special assessments or unpaid current special assessments against
the tract of land described in the above plat.
Dated at Lincoln, Illinois, this                day of                A.D., 20 
.
   County Clerk         
   Q.   Certification that approval by the city council and the city plan
commission has been obtained when required by law; sample certificate as
follows:
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL OF CITY OF MT. PULASKI
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF LOGAN   )
I,                         , City Clerk of the City of Mt. Pulaski, Illinois,
do hereby certify that the attached plat entitled "                           
      " was accepted and approved by the City Council of said City of Mt.
Pulaski, Illinois, on the                day of                A.D., 20   as
appears on the records of my office.
Given under my hand and Seal of the City of Mt. Pulaski this                day
of               20  .
      SEAL   City Clerk       
   CERTIFICATION BY THE MT. PULASKI PLAN COMMISSION
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF LOGAN   )
Approved this                day of                A.D., 20  .
   Mt. Pulaski         
   Municipality         
         By            
         Chair, Plan Commission         
   R.   Certification of the Mt. Pulaski Phoenix fire department that the tract
of land is within the boundaries of said Phoenix fire department as established
by ordinance; sample certificate as follows:
   CERTIFICATE OF MT. PULASKI PHOENIX FIRE DEPARTMENT
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF LOGAN   )
I,                          of the Mt. Pulaski Phoenix Fire Department hereby
certify that the tract of land described by the attached plat is within the
boundaries of said Phoenix Fire Department as established by ordinance.
Dated at Mt. Pulaski, Illinois, this                day of                A.D.,
20  .
         Mt. Pulaski Phoenix Fire Department
         By    
   Fire Chief
(1977 Code)
11-6-4: APPROVAL:
When the subdivider has filed with the plan commission an original tracing of
the final plat and three (3) prints thereof, and the plan commission has
determined at its next regular meeting that the final plan conforms to the
previously approved preliminary plan, including any condition which may have
been required by the plan commission in approving said preliminary plan, and
that said final plan meets the requirements of chapters 7, 8 and 9 of this
title, the following shall be printed or stamped upon the original tracing and
prints thereof and signed by the chair of the Mt. Pulaski plan commission:
This final plan of subdivision is recommended for approval, subject to
certification by the committee in charge of streets and the committee in charge
of the combined waterworks and sewerage system that all required improvements
stated in the Mt. Pulaski, Illinois Subdivision Regulations have been
constructed satisfactorily or that a certified check or satisfactory bond
guaranteeing completion of such construction has been filed with the City of
Mt. Pulaski.
The plan commission shall transmit the endorsed original tracing of the final
plan and two (2) prints thereof to the city council, with a letter of
transmittal in triplicate calling attention to any variations or exceptions to
the requirements of this title recommended by the plan commission under the
authority of section
11-2-4 of this title, and setting forth its reasons for recommending the same.
One print of said final plan so endorsed and a copy of all certificates shall
remain on file in the office of the plan commission. (1977 Code)
11-6-5: PLAN COMMISSION ACTION:
Upon receipt of a final plan and prints thereof so endorsed by the plan
commission, the city clerk shall send the original tracings and one print
thereof with a copy of the letter of transmittal from the plan commission to
the city council. (1977 Code)
11-6-6: COUNCIL APPROVAL:
The final plan shall not be approved by the city council until the committee in
charge of the combined waterworks and sewerage system and the committee in
charge of streets have certified thereon that the required improvements
specified by this title have been constructed in a satisfactory manner in
accordance with the minimum standards established by this title, or that, in
lieu of such prior construction, said subdivider has filed with the city clerk,
with the approval of the committee in charge of the combined waterworks and
sewerage system and the committee in charge of streets, a surety bond or
certified check. The committees may from time to time, when necessary, consult
with the appropriate engineer for the city for advice in the certification of
the final plan. (1977 Code)
No final plan shall be approved by the city council until the said council
certifies that the required improvements have been constructed or recommends
that the city council accept a surety bond or a certified check in lieu of the
required improvements to be constructed. Said surety bond or certified check
shall be deposited with the city clerk for street grading, pavements,
sidewalks, curbs and gutters, signs, alley improvements, and including storm
sewer systems, sewerage systems and water supply systems, in the amount equal
to the estimated cost of such required improvements, plus fifty percent (50%)
thereof, assuring completion of said required improvements within a two (2)
year period from the date of posting the surety bond.
An appropriate certificate signed by the committees which will accompany the
final plan shall be substantially as follows:
   CERTIFICATION BY THE CITY COUNCIL
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            )
COUNTY OF LOGAN   )
We,                         , and                         , chairpersons of the
combined waterworks and sewerage systems and streets in and for the City of Mt.
Pulaski, Illinois, do hereby certify that the attached final plan has been
examined by us and also that the subdivider's plans and specifications comply
with the required improvements as set forth in Title 11, chapter 9 of the City
Code, Subdivisions.
We further certify that the required bond is posted with the City Clerk for the
completion of the required improvements covering street grading, pavements,
sidewalks, curbs and gutters, signs, alley improvements including storm sewer
systems, sewerage systems and water supply systems in the amount of          
which is equal to the estimated cost of such required improvements plus fifty
percent (50%) thereof.
Dated this                day of                A.D., 20  .
   Committee Chair in Charge of         
   Combined Waterworks and Sewerage Systems         
   Committee Chair in Charge of Streets         
(1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
If the improvements are not completed within the two (2) year period of time by
the subdivider, owner or his contractor, the surety company shall be
responsible for the completion of the work within the next twelve (12) month
period. Cash bonds shall be used for the completion of the work as arranged by
the city council. Any unexpended balance shall be returned to the subdivider or
owner.
When the city council determines that the final plan has been recommended for
approval by the plan commission and the committee chairpersons have executed
the certificates required in this section, and that the required improvements
either have been installed in the manner specified by this title, or that said
surety bonds or certified checks are in a form and amount sufficient to assure
completion, the city council may approve said final plan, and the city clerk
shall certify to the same, and thereupon, the original of said final plan shall
be delivered to the subdivider. (1977 Code)
11-6-7: RECORDATION:
When such final plan has been approved by the city council and certified by the
city clerk, it shall be recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of
Logan County, Illinois. (1977 Code)
11-6-8: ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS:
In any plat of subdivision design containing streets or thoroughfares which are
therein reserved for dedication to public use, the approval of the final plan
by the city council shall constitute the acceptance of such streets or
thoroughfares to the extent provided by state statute. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MINIMUM DESIGN AND LAYOUT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Scope
11-7-2: Conformity To Community Plans
11-7-3: Street Plan
11-7-4: Technical Street Design Standards
11-7-5: Easements
11-7-6: Sizes Of Blocks
11-7-7: Lot Standards
11-7-8: Commercial And Industrial Subdivisions
11-7-1: SCOPE:
The standards and requirements in this chapter shall apply to all new
subdivisions of land which do not qualify as planned unit development (PUD)
subdivisions, and they shall be interpreted to encourage and facilitate better
physical quality within the area. (1977 Code)
11-7-2: CONFORMITY TO COMMUNITY PLANS:
The location and width of all streets shall conform to the official plan for
streets and thoroughfares that has been adopted pursuant to the requirements of
the statutes of the state of Illinois and ordinances of the city. (1977 Code)
11-7-3: STREET PLAN:
The arrangement, character, extension, width and location of all streets shall
be considered in their relationship to existing and planned streets, to
reasonable circulation of traffic within the subdivision and adjoining lands,
to topographic conditions, to runoff of stormwater, to public convenience and
safety, and in their appropriate relationship to the proposed uses of the area
to be served.
   A.   Width Of Streets And Alleys: All right of way widths shall conform to
the following dimensions:
Major thoroughfares            120 feet (or less as shown on the city plan)
Arterial streets               100 feet
Collector streets              80 feet minimum
Minor streets                  60 feet minimum
Dead end streets (cul-de-sacs) 50 feet minimum
Marginal access streets        40 feet minimum
Alleys                         20 feet minimum
Pedestrianways                 10 feet minimum
 
Right of way width of major traffic arteries, including interstate and limited
access routes, parkways and major and secondary thoroughfares, shall be in
accord with the more restrictive state, county, township or city plans having
legal jurisdiction over said right of way width.
   B.   Alignment And Continuation: Where streets are not a part of the
official plan or plan of other agency having jurisdiction noted in subsection A
of this section, the arrangement of the streets in a subdivision shall provide
for the alignment and continuation of the appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas, or shall conform to an approved plan
for the neighborhood which meets a particular situation where topographic or
other conditions make continuance of, or conformance to, existing streets
impracticable.
   C.   Additional Width Of Existing Streets: Subdivisions that adjoin existing
streets shall dedicate additional right of way if necessary to meet the minimum
street width requirements set forth as follows:
      1.   The entire additional right of way shall be provided where the
subdivision is on both sides of the existing street.
      2.   When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing
street, one-half (1/2) or more of the required additional right of way shall be
provided as deemed necessary by the plan commission.
   D.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so aligned that their use by
through traffic will be prevented or discouraged.
   E.   Cul-De-Sacs And Temporary Dead End Streets:
      1.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall not be more than five hundred feet
(500') in length (measured from the street of origin to the end of right of
way) unless necessitated by some unusual condition of topography. They shall be
provided at the closed end with a circular right of way of at least one hundred
feet (100') in diameter for turning movements.
      2.   Temporary Dead End Streets: Where it is necessary to provide for
street access to adjoining property not yet subdivided, proposed streets shall
be extended by dedication to the boundary of such unsubdivided property. Such
temporary dead end streets that serve more than four (4) lots shall be provided
with a temporary turnaround having a right of way diameter of one hundred feet
(100').
   F.   Marginal Access Streets: Marginal access streets shall be located in
the rights of way of the limited access route or thoroughfares. Additional land
for right of way, needed to secure designated width (measured from the
centerline of the established street) for thoroughfares, shall be reserved in
the subdivision plat.
   G.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential
to reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with other
requirements of the regulations and when the plan commission finds that it will
be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided.
   H.   Private Streets And Reserve Strips: There shall be no private street
platted in any subdivision. Every subdivided lot shall be served from a
publicly dedicated street. There shall be no reserve strips controlling access
to streets, and there shall be no reserve strips or areas enabling access to
interior lots from streets in residential subdivisions.
   I.   Alleys: Alleys may be permitted in residential areas when deemed
necessary by the plan commission. Service access or alleys shall be provided to
all lots to be used for business and industrial development.
   J.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrianways with a minimum width of ten feet (10')
may be provided to facilitate pedestrian movement in the neighborhood. Such
ways are recommended in all blocks that are more than eight hundred feet (800')
long and for access to community facilities that do not have pedestrian access
from two (2) or more streets, as well as in areas that have no sidewalk
requirements.
   K.   Restriction Of Access: It is recommended that provisions be made to
separate through and local traffic, thus providing protection for residential
properties, and to serve proposed residential lots that abut thoroughfares and
highways by providing: 1) marginal access streets; 2) lots backing to the
thoroughfares with screen planting along the rear of such lots; and/or 3) deep
lots fronting on the thoroughfare with rear service alleys.
   L.   Railroad Crossings: Where a subdivision abuts a railroad right of way,
the number of streets crossing the railroad shall be kept to a minimum and
shall be located to facilitate grade separation.
   M.   Street Names: A proposed street which is in alignment with and joins an
existing and named street shall bear the name of the existing street. The use
of the suffix "street", "avenue", "boulevard", "driveway", "place" or "court",
or similar description, shall not be deemed a sufficient distinction between
names of streets having a common prefix. Accordingly, such practice should be
avoided. (1977 Code)
11-7-4: TECHNICAL STREET DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Street Grades: The following design standards shall prevail:
Thoroughfare and collector streets: Not less than 0.4 percent nor to exceed
five percent (5%).
   B.   Street Jogs: Street centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') are not recommended.
   C.   Intersections: Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles
as is possible, and no intersections shall be at an angle of less than sixty
degrees (60°).
   D.   Horizontal Curves: Street centerlines that deflect from each other at
any one point by more than ten degrees (10°) shall be connected by a curve with
a radius of not less than three hundred feet (300') for collector streets and
one hundred fifty feet (150') for minor streets; provided, that a three hundred
foot (300') stopping sight distance is established. Tangents of at least fifty
feet (50') in length shall be introduced between reverse curves on and between
collector streets.
   E.   Vertical Curves: Different connecting street gradients shall be
connected with vertical parabolic curves. Minimum length in feet of these
curves shall provide a stopping sight distance of not less than three hundred
feet (300') with an eye height of four and five-tenths feet (4.5') and an
object height of four inches (4") to be met in calculation.
   F.   Drainage: Storm sewers, culverts and related installations shall be
provided to permit unimpeded flow of natural watercourses, to drain all low
points along streets, and to intercept stormwater runoff along streets at
intervals reasonably related to the extent and grade of an area drained. In the
design of storm sewage installations, special consideration shall be given to
avoidance of problems which may arise from concentration of stormwater runoff
over adjacent properties.
   G.   Other Design Standards: Other detailed street standards not
specifically covered in this section shall be established by the city engineer.
(1977 Code)
11-7-5: EASEMENTS:
Easements with a minimum width of ten feet (10') shall be provided for any
overhead or underground utility service, including stormwater drainage where
necessary in or over undedicated land. Insofar as possible, easements shall be
located to the rear of each lot and along such lines as to provide continuity
of alignment from block to block.
Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway or stream, there
shall be provided a drainage easement conforming substantially with the lines
of such watercourse. It shall include an additional area ten feet (10') wide
adjoining both edges of the established area that has been affected by damaging
floodwaters, as certified by the subdivider or his engineer. (1977 Code)
11-7-6: SIZES OF BLOCKS:
In residential subdivisions, blocks shall not be less than four hundred feet
(400') nor more than one thousand four hundred feet (1,400') in length,
measured along the greatest dimension of the enclosed block area. In blocks
over eight hundred feet (800') in length, the plan commission may require
public crosswalks through such block to facilitate pedestrian movement and to
provide more direct access to schools, parks or other facilities. Blocks shall
be wide enough to allow lots of a minimum depth of one hundred feet (100').
Blocks must fit readily into the overall plan of the subdivision, and the
design must evidence consideration of lot planning and easy traffic circulation
and provide space for public land uses as may be needed in the neighborhood.
(1977 Code)
11-7-7: LOT STANDARDS:
All lots shall have the minimum width and areas required by the zoning title
(title 10 of this code); except, that where on site sewage disposal and/or
water supply are proposed, the following additional requirements regarding lot
width and area must be observed to protect the public health and welfare:
   A.   For areas without public sewer and water:
      1.   In residential subdivisions, where only a public sanitary sewer
system is provided, lots for single-family detached dwellings shall have a
minimum area of eight thousand (8,000) square feet and a minimum lot frontage
of fifty feet (50') at the building line.
      2.   In residential subdivisions where only a public water system is
provided, lots for single-family detached dwellings shall have a minimum size
of ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a minimum frontage of sixty feet (60')
at the building line; provided, that the subdivider must prove to the
satisfaction of the plan commission that the soil and the lot area for a septic
system is suitable for the absorption of septic tank effluent without
contamination of any drinking water supply or creating undesirable sanitary
conditions. The soil must have an acceptable percolation rate without
interference from groundwater or impervious strata below the level of the
absorption system. In general, two (2) conditions must be met:
Percolation test: The percolation time noted from percolation tests on each lot
should be within the range of those specified in the graph below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b37825d25190b4ce5127e62f81ebb90e2cc011de/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1419.gif]
 
The maximum elevation of the groundwater table should be at least four feet
(4') below the surface. Rock formation or other impervious strata should be at
a depth greater than four feet (4') below the bottom of the trench or seepage
pit. In general, all subsurface absorption systems should be kept at least one
hundred feet (100') from any water supply well, fifty feet (50') from any
stream or watercourse, twenty feet (20') from dwellings and ten feet (10') from
property lines. Unless these conditions are met, the plan commission may
recommend that the site is unsuitable for subsurface sewage disposal systems.
      3.   In residential subdivisions where individual sanitary sewer and
water systems are to be provided, lots for single-family detached dwellings
shall have a minimum area of forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560)
square feet or one acre and a minimum lot frontage of one hundred fifty feet
(150') at the building line. This subsection A3 shall be subject to the same
percolation tests and requirements as set forth in subsection A2 of this
section.
   B.   Side lines of lots shall be at right angles or radial to the street
line or substantially so. Along curvilinear street lines, side lines of lots
formed by radial projections shall form a lot having not less than twenty feet
(20') across the rear property line.
   C.   Butt lots shall be platted five feet (5') wider than the average
interior lot in developments containing lots less than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet in area.
   D.   The building setback lines shall conform to the front yard setback
lines set forth in the zoning title.
   E.   Double frontage lots shall not be permitted except by plan commission
approval in instances where: 1) the lot backs upon a thoroughfare; and 2) the
topographic or other conditions make subdividing otherwise unreasonable, then
such double frontage lots shall have an additional depth of at least twenty
feet (20') for a protective screen planting on one frontage.
   F.   Lots abutting upon watercourses, drainageways, channels or streams
shall have an additional depth or width, as required, to provide an acceptable
building site. (1977 Code)
11-7-8: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
Subdividing land for commercial and industrial use on a lot by lot basis shall
be discouraged. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PARKS, STREETS, PUBLIC OPEN SPACES
SECTION:
11-8-1: Allocation Of Areas
11-8-1: ALLOCATION OF AREAS:
Due consideration shall be given to the allocation of suitably located areas of
adequate size for school, park and playground needs for local or neighborhood
use as well as areas needed for other public uses.
Where a proposed school, street, neighborhood park or recreation area, shown on
the official city plan, is located in whole or in part in the applicant's
subdivision, the chair of the plan commission may require, as a condition of
final approval, that such space within the subdivision be reserved and not
developed for a period not to exceed one year from the date of such final
approval so that within said period the appropriate public agency may acquire
said land in the manner provided by law and before it is developed for some
purpose not within the official city plan. If the land is not so acquired and
no legal action for acquisition is filed by such public agency within such
period, said reservation shall be of no further effect, and such lands then may
be used for other purposes consistent with city regulations. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 9
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Scope
11-9-2: Streets And Public Ways; Utilities
11-9-3: Sewers
11-9-4: Water
11-9-1: SCOPE:
A final plan for subdividing shall be approved by the city council only after
receipt of a statement signed by the city engineer certifying that the plans
and specifications for improvements described herein have been prepared by a
registered professional engineer and that construction conforms with the
requirements under chapter 6 of this title and meets the minimum requirements
of all applicable ordinances of the county and city in compliance with the
provisions hereof. (1977 Code)
11-9-2: STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS; UTILITIES:
   A.   Required Data And Information: A registered professional engineer or a
registered land surveyor acting for the subdivider shall meet with the Mt.
Pulaski township highway commissioner and the committee in charge of streets on
the location of the subdivision and shall present sufficient data and
information relative to the proposed street improvements to ensure satisfactory
grading and drainage. The Mt. Pulaski township highway commissioner may refer
matters that require additional clarification to the county superintendent of
highways. (1977 Code)
   B.   Guarantee Of Improvements: The subdivider shall enter into a contract
with the city wherein, for the consideration of acceptance of the street
improvements by the city, the subdivider agrees to construct streets in the
subdivision to the standards prescribed herein at his own expense with no cost
to the township or the county. The subdivider shall post a surety bond or
certified check for completion in the full amount of the cost of construction,
plus fifty percent (50%), of all required improvements listed herein as
estimated by a registered professional engineer or registered land surveyor who
has been approved by the city council to ensure the faithful performance of
this contract. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Grading:
      1.   The full width of the right of way shall be graded, including the
subgrade of the areas to be paved.
      2.   All stumps and trees that cannot be saved, boulders and similar
items shall be removed.
      3.   All grading in the subdivision shall be related to the topography of
the surrounding area. All street embankments shall be raised at least one and
one-half feet (11/2') above high water.
   D.   Surface Water Drainage:
      1.   The subdivision shall have an adequate stormwater system which shall
be connected with an approved outlet.
      2.   In subdivisions containing lots less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet in area and in business and industrial districts, underground storm
sewer systems shall be constructed throughout the subdivision and connected to
an approved outlet.
      3.   Correction of any inadequate surface water drainage shall be covered
by the maintenance bond.
   E.   Minimum Pavement Widths:
      1.   All streets shall be improved with pavements to an overall width in
accordance with the following minimum dimensions:
   Type Of Stre   Pavement Width
                     (Back To Back Of Curbs)
   Type Of Street      Pavement Width
                          (Back To Back Of Curbs)
Major thoroughfares    In accordance with federal, state, county or local plans
Arterial street        44 feet with 10 foot center median
Collector              40 feet
Minor street           34 feet
Cul-de-sac             34 feet
Marginal access street 28 feet
Half street            1/2 the width of the proposed street, but not less than
                       14 feet
 
      2.   Pavement in cul-de-sac turnabouts in all developments shall have a
minimum diameter of eighty feet (80') with permanent type edge.
      3.   Streets in industrial or business subdivisions may be required to
have greater widths as directed by the plan commission.
   F.   Roadway Surfacing: Pavements shall be installed in accordance with the
following standards: (1977 Code)
      1.   Base Course: Gravel and crushed stone base course to a depth of six
inches (6") compacted in residential subdivisions, and to a depth of twelve
inches (12") compacted in manufacturing and business subdivisions. The
construction work shall be carried out in accordance with section 29 of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", prepared by the
state of Illinois department of transportation, division of highways, adopted
August 1968, as amended. The material used in the top three inch (3") course of
this base shall be either grade 7, 8, 9 or 11 as specified in said
specifications. The material in the lower portion of the base may be either of
the above named grades, or it may be a processed aggregate meeting the
following graduation requirements: (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Passing a 3 inch sieve       100 percent
Passing a 1 inch sieve       60 to 90 percent
Passing a 11/2 inch sieve    40 to 80 percent
Passing a no. 8 sieve        20 to 45 percent
Passing a no. 200 sieve      5 to 15 percent
 
If crushed gravel is used, the clay content shall be not less than five percent
(5%) nor more than ten percent (10%).
Pit run gravel will not be satisfactory for use in the base construction. (1977
Code)
      2.   Surface: When the above base is in place and accepted by the county
superintendent of highways and the committee in charge of streets of the city
council, a bituminous surface not less than two inches (2") thick and
conforming with the aforementioned specifications for B-5 modified plant mix of
1-11 bituminous concrete surface shall be placed upon it. After the base course
is completed, the bituminous surface shall not be placed upon it for a winter
season including the months of December, January and February or for six (6)
months if approved by the city engineer. (1977 Code; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Notification Of Start Of Construction: The county superintendent of
highways, the Mt. Pulaski township highway commissioner and the committee in
charge of streets shall be notified forty eight (48) hours in advance of the
starting date of any work on the street. The three (3) aforementioned persons
or committees shall be furnished with a list of sources of materials used on
the job in time to check the work. Materials to be used on the job may be
subject to inspection at the source or at the street construction site.
Construction work may be inspected at the time of construction and also
following construction. Random core borings may be made at the discretion of
the county superintendent of highways and the committee in charge of streets to
assure that construction of the pavement has been carried out in compliance
with the rules and regulations noted above.
      4.   Concrete An Acceptable Surface: Nothing herein contained shall be
construed as eliminating concrete as an acceptable surface, provided all
requirements herein contained are satisfied and approved by the county
superintendent of highways and the Mt. Pulaski township highway commissioner.
   G.   Curbs And Gutters: All subdivisions shall be provided with Portland
cement concrete curbs and gutters. Curbs and gutters shall not be less than
eighteen inches (18") in width and not less than six inches (6") thick where
the gutter abuts the street pavements.
   H.   Sidewalks: Portland cement concrete sidewalks at least four feet (4')
wide and four inches (4") thick shall be required on both sides of a street in
all subdivisions containing any lot or lots one hundred feet (100') or less in
width. Sidewalks shall be installed in accordance with standards and
specifications approved by the plan commission.
   I.   Unpaved Areas: All unpaved areas within the dedicated street area shall
be graded and seeded in an approved manner.
   J.   Curb Corners: All curb corners shall have a minimum radius of not less
than twenty five feet (25').
   K.   Stormwater Inlets, Outlets And Culverts: Stormwater inlets or outlets
and culverts shall be provided within the roadway improvements at points so as
to facilitate adequate stormwater runoff from the street pavement. The minimum
design and specification for such structure shall be obtained from the city
engineer.
   L.   Street Name Signs: A four-way metal street sign shall be installed at
each street intersection. The letters shall be at least three and one-half
inches (31/2") high. The post shall be not less than two inches (2") inside
diameter galvanized iron water pipe or equal, ten feet (10') long. They shall
be installed at a height of not less than seven feet (7') and shall be placed
not less than one foot (1') nor more than ten feet (10') from the edge of the
pavement.
   M.   Alleys: Alley pavements shall be twenty feet (20') wide and in
accordance with the street specifications.
   N.   Pedestrianways: Five foot (5') wide Portland cement concrete walks
shall be installed.
   O.   Survey Monuments:
      1.   Concrete or stone monuments four inches (4") in diameter or square
three inches (3") long, with a flat top, shall be set at all street corners, at
all points where the street lines intersect the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision, and points of curve in each street.
      2.   The top of the monument shall have an indented cross to identify the
location and shall be set flush with the finished grade.
   P.   Public Utility Easements:
      1.   All overhead utility services for telephone, electric service and
similar installations shall be placed, insofar as possible, at the line
easements for lots less than forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560)
square feet in area. All underground utility services for telephone, electric,
gas and other similar services shall be placed within an easement or dedicated
public way so that these utility service lines will not conflict with other
underground services and shall be buried to a minimum of three feet (3').
Transformer boxes and similar installations shall be located so as not to be
unsightly or hazardous to the public.
      2.   Where an underground utility is to be placed in an area which has a
permanent type street or sidewalk surface, or upon which such a surface is to
be constructed within a period of six (6) months, the backfill above the
utility, or in the case of sewers, above the top of the gravel cradle, to the
level of the bottom of the permanent type surface shall be made with material
specified for "selected granular backfill". In areas not now subject to
vehicular traffic, nor in the opinion of the committee in charge of streets,
likely to be, backfill may be made with selected excavation material, free from
clods and stones. Compaction of all backfill material shall be done by one of
the following methods:
         a.   Backfill shall be placed in layers not exceeding twelve inches
(12") in depth, each layer to be thoroughly tamped to the satisfaction of the
committee in charge of streets.
         b.   Backfill shall be flushed with water or jetted to the
satisfaction of the committee in charge of streets, after which flushing or
jetting such settlement as may have occurred shall be filled with surplus
material. (1977 Code)
11-9-3: SEWERS:
   A.   Each property or lot shall connect with a public sanitary sewer system,
if accessible. Where the sewer is not yet accessible, but is planned for
extension to the subdivision, the subdivider shall install sewer lines
including external connections or stub terminals at the outside of curb lines
for each lot. If such capped sewer system is provided, an interim on site
disposal system shall also be provided.
A sewer shall be considered to be planned for extension to a given area anytime
after engineering studies have been authorized and completed, and the
construction of facilities adequate to serve the area containing the
subdivision has been programmed for completion within a reasonable time.
   B.    Where no public system is available, individual disposal systems shall
be provided on each lot. The absorption ability of the soil, surface drainage
and topography shall be the criteria for determining whether or not the
installation of individual septic tank disposal systems is feasible.
Feasibility shall be ascertained by the subdividers whenever individual systems
are proposed. At least two (2) percolation tests shall be made on each lot at
the approximate location of the septic system absorption field. Such tests
shall be performed in accord with the requirements of the plan commission and
the state of Illinois department of public health. The results of these tests
shall be certified by a registered professional engineer and made known to the
plan commission and the state of Illinois department of public health. In the
event that individual systems are not feasible, a group sewage system may be
required.
Individual sewage disposal systems shall consist of a septic tank and tile
absorption field or other approved sewage disposal methods. All such systems
shall be constructed in accordance with the state of Illinois department of
public health requirements.
   C.   Sanitary sewers shall not be used to carry stormwater or surface water.
   D.   All principal sanitary sewer lines shall be located within the street
right of way or public easement. (1977 Code)
11-9-4: WATER:
   A.   Where adequate public water supply is available as determined by the
plan commission, the subdivider shall construct a system of water mains not
less than six inches (6") in diameter. A water stub terminal shall be installed
outside the curb lines for each lot which shall connect with such public water
supply and serve adequately all lots and tracts within the subdivision.
   B.   Fire hydrants should be installed throughout the entire system at
intervals of approximately four hundred foot (400') radius as a part of the
same public water system.
All fire hydrants in residence areas should have at least a six and one-fourth
inch (61/4") barrel and shall be provided with two (2) 21/2-inch hose
connections. In commercial areas, all fire hydrants shall have a seven inch
(7") barrel and shall be provided with two (2) 21/2-inch hose connections and
one steamer connection. All fire hydrants shall meet national standard
specifications. (1977 Code)
TITLE 12
REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Short Title
12-1-2: Purpose And Declaration Of Policy
12-1-3: Construction
12-1-4: Severability
12-1-5: Definitions
12-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the FAIR HOUSING ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF MT. PULASKI, ILLINOIS. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
12-1-2: PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city and the purpose of this
title, in the exercise by the city of its policy and regulatory powers for the
protection of the public safety, for the health, morals, safety and welfare of
the persons in and residing in the city, and for the maintenance and promotion
of commerce, industry and good government in the city, to secure to all persons
living or desiring to live in the city a fair opportunity to purchase, lease,
rent or occupy housing without discrimination based on race, color, religion,
national origin, gender, creed, ancestry, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, marital status, age, military status, unfavorable discharge from the
military, sexual orientation or order of protection status. (Ord., 4-24-1990;
amd. 2010 Code)
12-1-3: CONSTRUCTION:
This title shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms and
shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated in
section
12-1-2 of this chapter and the special purposes of the particular provisions
involved. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
12-1-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this title or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this title and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this title, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DWELLING: Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the city, which
is arranged, designed or used as a home, residence or living quarters of one or
more individuals.
HOUSING: Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the city, which
is used or occupied as the home, residence or living quarters of one or more
individuals, groups or families, and includes any vacant land within the city
which is zoned and intended to be used for the construction of any such
building or structure.
LEASE: Includes sublease, assignment, and rent (or rental), and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan association,
other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans, any person
in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans or guarantees as
agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or selling loans or
instruments for the payment of money which are secured by title to a security
interest in real estate, but shall not include any religious institution or
organization nor any charitable or educational organization operated,
supervised or controlled by a religious institution or organization.
NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any beneficial
interest in, any dwelling or housing, or who holds legal or equitable title to
shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative
which owns any dwelling or housing.
PERSON: One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated organizations, trusts,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
PURCHASE: Any contract to purchase.
REAL ESTATE AGENT: Any real estate broker, any real estate salesperson, and any
other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the management
or operation of any dwelling or housing.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person licensed as a real estate broker in accordance
with the provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 454/1-1 et seq., or
required thereby to be so licensed.
REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON: Any person licensed as a real estate salesperson in
accordance with the provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 454/1-1 et
seq., or required thereby to be so licensed.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: The purchase, sale, exchange, or lease of any dwelling
or housing, and an option to do any of the foregoing.
SALE: Includes any contract to sell, exchange or to convey, transfer or assign,
real or equitable title to or a beneficial interest in real estate. (Ord., 4-
24-1990)
CHAPTER 2
DISCRIMINATION, EXEMPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Discriminatory Terms
12-2-2: Refusal To Deal
12-2-3: Withholding Housing
12-2-4: Advertisements And Notices
12-2-5: Exemptions
12-2-6: Limitations
12-2-1: DISCRIMINATORY TERMS:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
owner or other person to sell or lease a dwelling or housing on terms,
conditions or privileges that discriminate between persons because of race,
color, religion, national origin, gender, creed, ancestry, physical or mental
handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military status, unfavorable
discharge from the military, sexual orientation or order of protection status.
(Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
12-2-2: REFUSAL TO DEAL:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
owner or other person to refuse to negotiate for, enter into, or perform any
sale or lease of any dwelling or housing because of the race, color, religion,
national origin, gender, creed, ancestry, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, marital status, age, military status, unfavorable discharge from the
military, sexual orientation or order of protection status of any party to such
sale or lease, or of any member of the family of any such party, or of any
person using or occupying or intending to use or occupy such dwelling or
housing, or of any person using or occupying any dwelling or housing in the
area in which such dwelling or housing is located. (Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010
Code)
12-2-3: WITHHOLDING HOUSING:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
owner or other person to represent to any person that any dwelling or housing
is not available for inspection, purchase, sale, lease, or occupancy when in
fact it is so available, or otherwise to withhold housing from any person
because of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, creed, ancestry,
physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military
status, unfavorable discharge from the military, sexual orientation or order of
protection status. (Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
12-2-4: ADVERTISEMENTS AND NOTICES:
   A.   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title
for any owner or other person to publish or circulate a statement,
advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any dwelling or
housing in a manner that is unlawful under this chapter.
   B.   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title
for any owner or other person to cause any person to circulate or publish a
statement, advertisement or notice that such owner or other person intends to
sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this
chapter, or to consent thereto.
   C.   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title
for any owner or other person to post or erect, or cause any person to post or
erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or housing indicating the intent to
sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this
chapter. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
12-2-5: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to the rental of any room or dwelling unit in any
owner occupied dwelling which consists of more than one but less than five (5)
dwelling units. As used herein, the term "dwelling unit" means one or more
rooms which are arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for one family
or one individual. The term "owner" includes the spouse or any lineal
descendant or ancestor of the owner. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
12-2-6: LIMITATIONS:
Nothing in this title shall require an owner to offer property to the public at
large before selling or renting it, provided he complies with all other
provisions of this title. Nor shall this title be deemed to prohibit owners
from giving preference to prospective tenants or buyers for any reason other
than religion, race, color, national origin, gender, creed, ancestry, physical
or mental handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military status,
unfavorable discharge from the military, sexual orientation or order of
protection status. Nothing in this title shall require an owner to offer
property for sale or lease or to show his property to any person if such person
is not negotiating for the purchase or lease of such property in good faith.
(Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES
SECTION:
12-3-1: Withholding Housing
12-3-2: Refusals Of Offers
12-3-3: Advertisements And Notices
12-3-4: Discrimination In Lending
12-3-5: Refusal To Deal In Lending
12-3-6: Coverage
12-3-1: WITHHOLDING HOUSING:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
real estate agent or other person to represent to any person that any dwelling
or housing is not available for inspection, sale, lease or occupancy when in
fact it is so available, or otherwise to withhold housing from any person
because of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, creed, ancestry,
physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military
status, unfavorable discharge from the military, sexual orientation or order of
protection status. (Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
12-3-2: REFUSALS OF OFFERS:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
real estate agent or other person to refuse to receive or to fail to transmit a
bona fide offer for the purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any dwelling or
housing because of the race, color, religion, national origin, gender, creed,
ancestry, physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status, age,
military status, unfavorable discharge from the military, sexual orientation or
order of protection status of the person making such offer. (Ord., 4-24-1990;
amd. 2010 Code)
12-3-3: ADVERTISEMENTS AND NOTICES:
   A.   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title
for any real estate agent or other person to publish or circulate a statement,
advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any dwelling or
housing in a manner that is unlawful under chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title
for any real estate agent or other person to post or erect, or cause or permit
any person to post or erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or housing
managed by or in the custody, care or control of such real estate agent or
other person indicating an intent to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a
manner that is unlawful under this chapter or chapter 2 of this title. (Ord.,
4-24-1990)
12-3-4: DISCRIMINATION IN LENDING:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
lending institution, in making, agreeing to make, arranging, or negotiating for
any loan or guarantee of funds for the purpose of financing the purchase or
sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of
any dwelling or housing, to offer, seek or agree to terms, conditions or
privileges that discriminate between persons because of race, color, religion,
national origin, gender, creed, ancestry, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, marital status, age, military status, unfavorable discharge from the
military, sexual orientation or order of protection status. (Ord., 4-24-1990;
amd. 2010 Code)
12-3-5: REFUSAL TO DEAL IN LENDING:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
lending institution to refuse to negotiate for, enter into or perform any
agreement to lend or guarantee the loan of funds for the purchase, sale,
construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of any
dwelling or housing because of the race, color, religion, national origin,
gender, creed, ancestry, physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital
status, age, military status, unfavorable discharge from the military, sexual
orientation or order of protection status of any party to such agreement, or of
any member of the family of any such party, or of the residents of the area in
which such dwelling or housing is located. (Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
12-3-6: COVERAGE:
This chapter shall apply, respectively, to every real estate agent who, within
the city, performs any function as such real estate agent but does not maintain
an office or place of business within the city; and this chapter applies to
every real estate agent and lending institution who maintains an office or
place of doing business within the city; provided, however, that the provisions
of this title shall not be so construed as to prohibit a real estate broker or
real estate agent, on behalf of the owner, from inquiring into and reporting
upon qualifications of any prospective buyer or tenant with respect to
limitations or exclusions other than those of race, color, religion, national
origin, gender, creed, ancestry, physical or mental handicap, familial status,
marital status, age, military status, unfavorable discharge from the military,
sexual orientation or order of protection status. (Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010
Code)
CHAPTER 4
UNLAWFUL REPRESENTATIONS AND VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Representation
12-4-2: Other Violations
12-4-1: REPRESENTATION:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
person, for the purpose of inducing any other person to enter into a real
estate transaction with such person, his principal or his agent: (Ord., 4-24-
1990)
   A.   To represent that a change has occurred, will occur or may occur with
respect to the race, color, religion, national origin, gender, creed, ancestry,
physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military
status, unfavorable discharge from the military, sexual orientation or order of
protection status in the composition of the owners or occupants in any block,
neighborhood or area in which the dwelling or housing (which is the subject of
the real estate transaction) is located; or
   B.   To represent that a change with respect to the race, color, religion,
national origin, gender, creed, ancestry, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, marital status, age, military status, unfavorable discharge from the
military, sexual orientation or order of protection status in the composition
of the owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood or area will result in
the lowering of property values, or in an increase in criminal or antisocial
behavior, or in a decline in the quality of schools, in such block,
neighborhood or area. (Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
12-4-2: OTHER VIOLATIONS:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this title for any
person:
   A.   To aid, abet, incite, or coerce a person to engage in unlawful housing
practices;
   B.   Wilfully to interfere with the performance of a duty or the exercise of
power by the city council or one of its members or representatives; or
   C.   Wilfully to obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the
provisions of this title or an order issued hereunder. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
CHAPTER 5
COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
SECTION:
12-5-1: Complaints
12-5-2: Enforcement
12-5-3: Limitation Of Time To File Complaints
12-5-1: COMPLAINTS:
Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provisions of this
title may file with the city council a written verified complaint setting forth
his grievance. The complaint shall state: a) the name and address of the
complainant; b) the name and address of the person against whom the complaint
is brought, if known to the complainant; and c) the alleged facts surrounding
the alleged violation of this title, and such complaint shall state the names
and addresses of all persons believed to have knowledge concerning the alleged
facts. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
12-5-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The city council shall be empowered to order any person found to be
engaging in an unfair housing practice to cease and desist from such practice
upon such terms as shall be necessary and proper for the enforcement of this
title.
   B.   The city council shall be empowered to direct the city attorney to do
any one or more of the following:
      1.   To institute and prosecute proceedings to enforce, against any
person found in violation of this title, the fine provided in chapter 7 of this
title.
      2.   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:
         a.   For an order restraining any person from violating any provision
of this title; and
         b.   For such other or further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this title and the elimination of violations
hereof. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
      3.   To petition or institute proceedings with the department of
professional regulation for the purpose of causing the department to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by such department to any real
estate broker or real estate salesperson found to have violated any provision
of this title. (Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
      4.   In the case of any unlawful housing practice or violation of this
title by any person in the course of performing under a contract or subcontract
with the state or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or with the
United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, to petition
or institute proceedings with such contracting agency for the purpose of
causing it to terminate such contract or any portion thereof, either absolutely
or on condition of compliance with the provisions of this title. (Ord., 4-24-
1990)
12-5-3: LIMITATION OF TIME TO FILE COMPLAINTS:
Any complaint filed hereunder with the city council must be filed within
fourteen (14) calendar days after the alleged discriminatory practice occurred
or it shall be barred. (Ord., 4-24-1990)
CHAPTER 6
REMEDIES
SECTION:
12-6-1: Relief From Violations
12-6-1: RELIEF FROM VIOLATIONS:
Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provision of this
title may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for appropriate relief
from such violation, including:
   A.   An order compelling compliance with this title;
   B.   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated any
provision of this title from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or
assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of such violation;
   C.   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the sale,
lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing,
or any person who, in violation of this title, refuses or fails to perform such
contract;
   D.   Compensatory damages; and
   E.   Such other and further relief as may seem to the court appropriate for
the enforcement of this title and the elimination of violations hereof. (Ord.,
4-24-1990)
CHAPTER 7
FINE
SECTION:
12-7-1: Imposed
12-7-1: IMPOSED:
Any person who violates any provision of this title shall be subject to fine
not to exceed that set out in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 4-24-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
