MOWEAQUA, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-16
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF MOWEAQUA, SHELBY
AND CHRISTIAN COUNTIES, ILLINOIS REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of
Moweaqua ("Village") are inadequately arranged and classified and are
insufficient in form and substance for the complete preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the
proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village have authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Village of general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF MOWEAQUA, SHELBY AND CHRISTIAN COUNTIES, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION 1. The general ordinances of the Village as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Moweaqua, Illinois.
   SECTION 2.  Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   General Provisions
         31.   Village Officials
         32.   Village Organizations
         33.   Employee Personnel Code
         34.   Public Safety
         35.   Village Policies
         36.   Finances and Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   Utilities
         51.   Rates and Regulations
         52.   Water System
         53.   Sewer System
         54.   Small Wireless Facilities
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   General Provisions
         71.   Vehicles and Equipment
         72.   Parking Rules
         73.   Abandoned, Inoperable and Derelict Vehicles
         74.   Traffic Schedules
         75.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Animals
         91.   Nuisances
         92.   Health and Safety Regulations
         93.   Parks
         94.   Street Regulations
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Liquor
         111.   Business Code
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   General Provisions
          131.   Offenses Against Property
         132.   Offenses Against Public Health, Safety and Decency
         133.   Weapons
         134.   Parental Responsibility Regulations
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building Regulations
         151.   Property Maintenance Code
         152.   Floodplains
         153.   Mobile Housing Code
         154.   Subdivision Code
         155.   Zoning Code
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
   SECTION 3.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   SECTION 4.  Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the President and Board of Trustees and the Clerk of
the Village is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION 5.  Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearing and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   SECTION 6. The Village Clerk is directed to publish this ordinance and the
Code in pamphlet or book form and this ordinance and the Code shall be in full
force and effect ten days from and after its passage and publication in
accordance with the terms of Section 1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Moweaqua on this 10th day of September, 2019.
NAME                           AYE NAY ABSTAIN ABSENT
Trustee Kenny Long             x              
Trustee Dana Shuster           x              
Trustee Marcia Maynard         x              
Trustee J. D. Malone           x              
Trustee Josh Whitney           x              
Trustee Sean Hayes             x              
President Donald E. Neece, Jr.                
   TOTAL                    6              
                            Donald E. Neece, Jr. /s/
                           Donald E. Neece, Jr., President
ATTEST:
Mischelle R. Davis /s/
Mischelle Davis, Village Clerk
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS.
COUNTY OF SHELBY   )
   CERTIFICATE
   I, MISCHELLE DAVIS, certify that I am the duly appointed and acting Village
Clerk of the Village of Moweaqua, Shelby and Christian Counties, Illinois. I
further certify that on the 10th day of September, 2019, the Corporate
Authorities of the Village of Moweaqua passed and approved Ordinance No. 2019-
16 entitled:
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF MOWEAQUA, SHELBY
AND CHRISTIAN COUNTIES, ILLINOIS REVISING, AMENDING RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES
which provides by its terms that it should be published in pamphlet form.
   The pamphlet form of Ordinance No. 2019-16 including the Ordinance and a
cover sheet thereof, was prepared and a copy of such Ordinance was posted in
the Municipal Offices, commencing on the 10th day of September, 2019, and
continuing for at least ten days thereafter. Copies of such Ordinance were
available for public inspection upon request in the office of the Village
Clerk.
DATED this 10th day of September, 2019.
                               Mischelle Davis /s/
                              Michelle Davis
                              Village Clerk
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Code alteration
   
10.05   Jurisdiction
   
10.06   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.07   Public utility ordinances
   
10.08   Court proceedings
   
10.09   Severability of provisions
   
10.10   Village Clerk’s certificate
   
10.11   Construction of words
   
10.12   Definitions
   
10.13   Catchlines
   
10.14   Liability of officers
   
10.15   License
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this village code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official “revised code
of ordinances of the village”. The revised code of ordinances shall be known
and cited as the “Moweaqua Village code”, and it is hereby published by
authority of the Village Board and shall be kept up-to-date as provided in §
10.03 under the direction of the Village Attorney, acting for said Village
Board. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and subchapter heading and to the general penalty clause relating thereto as
well as to the section itself when reference is made to this village code by
title in any legal document.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   The village code as hereby presented in printed form shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.06.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-6
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending this village code, shall set forth the chapter,
subchapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and
this shall constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this
village code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be
immediately forwarded to the codifiers and the ordinance material shall be
prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this village code.
Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted
in each individual copy of the village code on an annual basis.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3
§ 10.04 CODE ALTERATION.
   (A)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace
or deface in any way, any section or any page of this code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized
by the Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of this code
shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up-to-date and efficient
manner. He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to him or her
through the office of the Village Clerk. Said code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the Clerk upon
termination of office or separation of duties.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 10.05 JURISDICTION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed within
the corporate limits of the village. Provisions of this code also apply to acts
performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law,
where the law confers power on the village to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-5)
§ 10.06 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still
in force or are, by necessary implication, herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   (A)   Tax levy ordinances;
   (B)   Appropriation ordinances;
   (C)   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   (D)   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   (E)   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   (F)   Salary ordinances;
   (G)   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   (H)   Improvement ordinances;
   (I)   Bond ordinances;
   (J)   Ordinances relating to elections;
   (K)   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the village; and
   (L)   All special ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-8)
§ 10.07 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by
virtue of §
10.06, excepting as this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or
ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-9)
§ 10.08 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any claim
arising under the former ordinance or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-10)
§ 10.09 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
severable, and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, nor any part
thereof, other than that part affected by such decision.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-11)
§ 10.10 VILLAGE CLERK’S CERTIFICATE.
   The Village Clerk’s certificate shall be substantially in the following
form:
VILLAGE CLERK’S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
COUNTY OF SHELBY      ) ss.                  VILLAGE CLERK’S OFFICE
VILLAGE OF MOWEAQUA    )
I, Village Clerk’s name, Village Clerk of the Village of Moweaqua, Illinois, do
hereby certify that the following Revised Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Moweaqua, Illinois, published by authority of the Village Board of Trustees were
duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees of the Village of Moweaqua,
Illinois, approved by the Mayor and published in book form according to law on
this date, and that these ordinances are true and perfect copies of the
ordinances, as passed, approved and now of record and on file in my office as
provided by law.
In witness whereof, I have set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
Village of Moweaqua, Illinois, this _____ day of _______, ____.
                     _____________________________________
                     VILLAGE CLERK
                     VILLAGE OF MOWEAQUA
(SEAL)
 
(1999 Code, § 1-1-12)
§ 10.11 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this code, importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
   (B)   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code
by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided that these rules of construction shall
not be applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or content may be
repugnant thereto.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-15)
§ 10.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. Unless otherwise indicated shall mean the Mayor and the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Moweaqua.
   CODE or THIS CODE. The revised code of ordinances of the Village of
Moweaqua.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Village Board of Trustees.
   COUNTY. The County of Shelby.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a VILLAGE EMPLOYEE by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
village”.
   FEE or FEES. A sum of money charged by the village for carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. Begins on May 1 of each year and ends on April 30 of the
following year.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or mission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the Village
Board in the employee agreement.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAYOR. The Village President or President of the Village Board of Trustees.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. Import a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
      (1)   Whenever reference is made in this code to a VILLAGE OFFICER or
EMPLOYEE by title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words
“of the village” and shall be taken to mean the officer or employee of this
village having the title mentioned or performing the duties indicated.
      (2)   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such duty,
unless the intention of the Village Board to impose such a fine, or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of village business, except during applicable Daylight Saving Time
set by national or state standards when the official time shall be advanced one
hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained by or at the expense of the village shall be set and run at
the OFFICIAL TIME prescribed by this definition.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land shall include any part-owner, joint-
owner, tenant-in- common, joint-tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation in his, her or its own capacity as administrator, conservator,
executor, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed by the court.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code prescribing a
penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or any such word as applied to
corporations, it shall include the officers, agents or employees thereof who
are responsible for any violation of said section.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
   STATE or THIS STATE. Unless otherwise indicated shall mean the State of
Illinois.
   STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares, public
places and sidewalks.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN and IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, by his or her proper mark.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2, 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(5), 65 ILCS 5/1-1-
2.1
§ 10.13 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-17)
§ 10.14 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   The failure of any officer or employee to perform any official duty imposed
by this code shall not subject such officer or employee to the penalty imposed
for violation of this code, unless a penalty is specifically provided for.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-24)
§ 10.15 LICENSE.
   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him or her by the village may be revoked by the
court or by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-25)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty.
      (1) Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code shall
be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for any one offense.
      (2)   Any minor or person designated a juvenile by this state convicted
of a violation of any section of this code shall be fined not less than $75 nor
more than $750 for any one offense, but may not be confined except by
provisions of the Juvenile Court Act of the state, being 705 ILCS 405.
      (3)   Whoever commits an offense against the village or aids, abets,
counsels, commands, induces or procures its commission is punishable as a
principal.
      (4)   Whoever willfully causes an act to be done which, if directly
performed by him, her or another would be an offense against the village, is
punishable as a principal.
      (5)   All municipal ordinance offenses may be satisfied without a court
appearance by written plea of guilty and payment of the minimum fine, plus
court costs, unless a court appearance is required by the ordinance violated.
      (6)   Community service: a penalty imposed for the violation of any
section of this code may include, or consist of, a requirement that the
defendant perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not limited
to, the picking up of litter in public parks or along public highways or the
maintenance of public facilities.
      (7)   In addition to any penalties specified under this division (A), the
village may request from a court of competent jurisdiction any equitable or
injunctive relief necessary to aid in the enforcement of its ordinances and may
request a court of competent jurisdiction, to enter an order requiring any
person convicted of a violation of the code, to refrain from further violation.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-20)
   (B)   Minor violations. The tickets issued under this section shall be as a
courtesy in lieu of arrest. If the person accused of this violation does not
settle the claim, a complaint or notice to appear will be issued for that
violation and the person shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
division (A) above.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-21)
   (C)   Service by certified mail. In all actions for violation of any
municipal ordinance where the fine would not be in excess of $750 and no jail
term could be imposed, service of summons may be made by the Municipal Clerk by
certified mail, return receipt requested, whether service is to be within or
without the state.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-22)
   (D)   Application.
      (1)   The penalty provided in this section shall be applicable to every
section of this village code, the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this village code, where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where
any act which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this village code.
      (2)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this village code, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village code, and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this code shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or
continues.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-23)
(Ord. 03/12/2002-1, passed 3-12-2002; Ord. 07/10/07-1, passed 7-10-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-7, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-8, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL CODE
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   VILLAGE POLICIES
      
36.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Corporate seal
   
30.02   Elections
   
30.03   Appointment of elected officials
   
30.04   Municipal officers; regulations
   
30.05   Resignation of appointed officials
   
30.06   Qualifications; elective office
   
30.07   Bonds of village officers
   
30.08   Liability insurance
   
30.09   Bidding and contract procedures
   
30.10   Pecuniary interest in contracts; prohibitions
   
30.11   Claims
   
30.12   Municipal year
   
30.13   Official records
   
30.14   Federal old age and survivor’s insurance system
   
30.15   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
Ordinances
   
30.30   Ordinances
   
30.31   Reconsideration; passing over veto
   
30.32   No vote to be reconsidered at special meeting
Salaries
   
30.45   Salaries regulation
   
30.46   Salaries of village officials
Management Association
   
30.60   Participation
   
30.61   Contribution
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the village shall be the same as that heretofore
provided and used by the village. It shall be circular in form with the words,
“Village of Moweaqua” in the exterior circle, and the words “Shelby County
Illinois” in the interior circle.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the village and in all other cases in which,
by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
The seal shall be and remain with the Village Clerk who shall be the legal
custodian.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90
§ 30.02 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of the 10 ILCS concerning municipal
elections shall govern the conduct of the village elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected village officials
shall occur at a special meeting of the Village Board in the month of April
following the general municipal election in April.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15
§ 30.03 APPOINTMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   No Trustee of this village, during the term of office for which he or
she is elected, may accept or be appointed to or hold any office appointed by
the Mayor except if such Trustee is granted a leave of absence from such
office. However, such Trustee may serve as a volunteer firefighter and receive
compensation for such service. Any appointment in violation of this section is
void.
   (B)   Note: one member may serve on the Library Board.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15, 75 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 30.04 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this section shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the village regardless of the time of creation of the
office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
   (B)   Qualifications: appointive office.
      (1)   No person shall be eligible for any appointive municipal office
unless that person is a qualified elector of the municipality or otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   The residency requirements do not apply, however, to municipal
engineers, health officers, attorneys or other officers who require technical
training or knowledge, to appointed village treasurers, or to appointed village
collectors (unless the village has designated by ordinance that the Village
Clerk shall also hold the office of collector).
   (C)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Village
Board upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Board, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (D)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor, all books, papers, furniture and other
things appertaining to such office, and which are the property of the village,
within five days after notification and request, any person who has been an
officer of a municipality is required to deliver to his or her successor in
office, all property, books and effects in his or her possession belonging to
the municipality, or pertaining to the office he or she has held. Upon his or
her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all damages caused thereby,
and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. He or she shall not receive his or her final
check until his or her village code book and keys are turned over to the
Village Clerk.
   (E)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor or any committee or member of the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Fees: report of fees. No officer of the municipality shall be entitled
to charge or receive any fees as against the village. All officers of the
village entitled to receive fees shall keep a correct account thereof, and make
a report thereof under oath to the Village Board, prior to the regular meeting
of each month. In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were
received, for what service, and when received. All fees received shall be paid
over into the village treasury.
   (G)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the village shall
perform such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as
the Village Board may provide by law.
   (H)   Conservators of peace.
      (1)   After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful
completion of a training course administered by the Illinois Law Enforcement
Training Standards Board, the Mayor, Trustees and police officers in
municipalities shall be conservators of the peace. Those persons and others
authorized by ordinance shall have power:
         (a)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
         (b)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
         (c)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody over night
or Sunday in any safe place or until they can be brought before the proper
court; and
         (d)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace
prescribed by the corporate authorities.
      (2)   All warrants for the violation of municipal ordinances or the state
criminal law, directed to any person, may be served and executed within the
limits of a municipality by any police officer of the municipality. For that
purpose, police officers have all the common law and statutory powers of
sheriffs.
   (I)   Oath.
      (1)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed shall take and subscribe to
the following oath:
 
“I, ___________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
_________________________________ , according to the best of my ability.”
 
      (2)   The Mayor and the Clerk shall have the power to administer this
oath or affirmation upon all lawful occasions.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-21)
Cross-reference:
   Administration of oaths, see §
31.057
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20, 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-15-25, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40, 65 ILCS 5/34-10-30
§ 30.05 RESIGNATION OF APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   Any officer of the village may resign from office. If such officer resigns,
he or she shall continue in office until his or her successor has been chosen
and has qualified. If there is a failure to appoint a village officer, or the
person appointed fails to qualify, the person filling the office shall continue
in office until his or her successor has been chosen and has qualified.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 30.06 QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office unless that
person is a qualified elector of the municipality and has resided in the
municipality at least one year next preceding the election.
   (B)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office if that
person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to the
municipality or has been convicted in any court located in the United States of
any infamous crime, bribery, perjury or other felony.
   (C)   A person is not eligible for the office of Trustee unless that person
has resided in the municipality, as the case may be, at least one year next
preceding the election or appointment.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5
§ 30.07 BONDS OF VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of village officers required under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30
shall be executed in the following penal sums:
Deputy Village Clerk            $50,000
Mayor                           $50,000
Golf Pro                        $50,000
Police officers                 $5,000
Street and Alley Superintendent $5,000
Village Clerk                   $50,000
Village Treasurer               $50,000
Water and Sewer Superintendent  $5,000
Water Clerk                     $50,000
 
   (B)   Premium payment by village. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the village.
   (C)   Surety. The Village Board shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the Village Board, any one of the Board of
Trustees or any elected or appointed officer of the village appear as bondsman
or security. If, by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is
approved by the Village Board or if any bondsman, after becoming such is
elected or appointed to any village office, this section shall not act as a
release of any such obligation incurred.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-24) (Ord. 08/12/2008-1, passed 8-12-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 270/1
§ 30.08 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Purchase of. The Village Board shall have the power to purchase
liability insurance covering and insuring all municipal officers, employees and
elected officials; said insurance to cover incidents occurring while in the
performance of their duties, which insurance may insure, cover and protect any
liability which the municipal corporation, officer, employee or elected
official may incur. When the insurance has been purchased, the village shall be
responsible for all premiums and deductible charges called for by any valid
liability insurance policy covering the municipal corporation, officer,
employee or elected official.
   (B)   Indemnification.
      (1)   If the Village Board elects not to purchase liability insurance
covering and insuring municipal officers, elected officials and employees as
provided in this section, then the village shall indemnify and cause to defend
municipal officers, elected officials and employees from any claim filed by an
individual, partnership or corporation when the claim is founded on any act or
omission of the municipal officers, elected officials or employees while in the
performance of their official duties, except the village shall not indemnify,
but shall defend any municipal officer, elected official or employee from any
claim made by an individual, partnership or corporation wherein the claim
alleges that the municipal officer, elected official or employee acted
intentionally, maliciously or wantonly and further, shall not indemnify or
cause to defend the officials or employees where the claim is directly or
indirectly related to the negligent care or use of a vehicle as defined by
state statutes, and the village shall not indemnify any municipal officer,
elected official or employee from any claim made by a municipal officer,
elected official or employee.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the village shall
not indemnify or cause to defend any municipal officers, elected officials or
employees if the municipal officers, elected officials or employees have
liability insurance insuring the municipal officers, elected officials or
employees from the alleged claim; however, the village shall indemnify the
municipal officer, elected official or employee the personal deductible limits
of his or her personal policy (see 745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.)
(1999 Code, § 1-2-25)
§ 30.09 BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive bidding required. Any work or other public improvement
which is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or
special taxation, and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials
and services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based whenever
possible on competitive bids.
   (B)   Formal contract procedure. All work or other public improvement which
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases, orders or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services except as otherwise provided herein, when the
estimated cost thereof shall exceed $25,000, shall be purchased from the lowest
responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless competitive bidding
is waived by a vote of two-thirds of the Trustees then holding office.
   (C)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper with general circulation within the village. The village
shall also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the
public bulletin board in the Village Hall.
   (D)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured, and the time and
place for opening bids.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees, bid
deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful
bidders shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of
the contract by the Board of Trustees. A successful bidder shall forfeit any
bid deposit required by the Board of Trustees upon failure on his or her part
to enter into a contract within ten days after the award.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the village and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
Board of Trustees or by a village employee, in which event, a tabulation of the
bids shall be furnished to the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The village shall have the authority to reject all
bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to village. The village shall not accept the bid of
a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other
monies due the village.
   (I)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in village. The Board of Trustees shall have the
authority to award contracts within the purview of this section. The contractor
shall provide lien waivers for all aspects of the project.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
village to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the Board of
Trustees shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (3)   Performance bonds. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority
to require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts
as it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the
village.
   (J)   Open market procedure. All work and purchases of supplies, materials
and services of less than the estimated value of $25,000 may be made in the
open market, without newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (K)   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements. All contracts
for professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers and architects and any other profession whose ethical
code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal bidding
procedures, may be entered into by the village without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (L)   Emergency purchases. In case of an apparent emergency which requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials or services, the Board of
Trustees shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set
forth, at the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials or
services regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   (M)   Cooperative purchasing. The village shall have the authority to join
with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the village would be served thereby.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-26) (Ord. 08/14/07-3, passed 8-14-2007; Ord. 2019-18, passed
11-12-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 8-9-1 and 8-9-2
§ 30.10 PECUNIARY INTEREST IN CONTRACTS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No municipal officer shall be interested, directly or
indirectly, in his or her own name or in the name of any other person,
association, trust or corporation, in any contract, work or business of the
municipality, or in the sale of any article, whenever the expense, price and
consideration of the contract, work, business or sale is paid either from the
treasury or by any assessment levied by any statute or ordinance.
      (2)   No municipal officer shall be interested, directly or indirectly,
in the purchase of any property which:
         (a)   Belongs to the municipality;
         (b)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
         (c)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the
municipality.
   (B)   However, any elected or appointed member of the governing body and any
person serving on a municipal advisory panel or commission may provide
materials, merchandise, property, services or labor, if:
      (1)   The contract is with a person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or cooperative association in which such interested member of the
governing body of the municipality or advisory panel or commission member has
less than a 7.5% share in the ownership;
      (2)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of his or
her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed award of
the contract;
      (3)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the contract,
though he or she shall be considered present for the purposes of establishing a
quorum;
      (4)   Such contract is approved by a majority vote of those members
presently holding office;
      (5)   The contract is awarded after sealed bids to the lowest responsible
bidder if the amount of the contract exceeds $1,500, but the contract may be
awarded without bidding if the amount is less than $1,500; and
      (6)   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed $25,000.
   (C)   In addition to the above exemption, any elected or appointed member of
the governing body and any person serving on a municipal advisory panel or
commission may provide materials, merchandise, property, services or labor if:
      (1)   The award of the contract is approved by a majority vote of the
governing body of the municipality provided that, in the case of an elected or
appointed member of the governing body, any such interested member shall
abstain from voting;
      (2)   The amount of the contract does not exceed $2,000;
      (3)   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed $4,000;
      (4)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of his or
her interest before or during deliberations concerning the proposed award of
the contract; and
      (5)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, the interested member abstains from voting on the award of the contract
(though the member shall be considered present for the purposes of establishing
a quorum).
   (D)   A contract for the procurement of public utility services by a
municipality with a public utility company is not barred by this section by one
or more members of the governing body being an officer or employee of the
public utility company or holding interest if no more than 7.5% in the public
utility company, or holding an ownership interest of any if the municipality
has a population of less than 7,500 and the public utility’s rates are approved
by the State Commerce Commission. An elected or appointed member of the
governing body having such an interest shall be deemed not to have a prohibited
interest under this section.
   (E)   Any officer who violates this section is guilty of a violation of this
code and in addition thereto any office held by such person so convicted shall
become vacant and shall be so declared as part of the judgment of the court.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this section, including the restrictions set
forth in divisions (B), (C) and (D) above, shall preclude a contract or deposit
of monies, loans or other financial services by a municipality with a local
bank or local savings and loan association, regardless of whether a member or
members of the governing body of the municipality are interested in such bank
or savings and loan association as an officer or employee or as a holder of
less than 7.5% of the total ownership interest. A member or members holding
such an interest in such a contract shall not be deemed to be holding a
prohibited interest for purposes of this section. Such interested member or
members of the governing body must publicly state the nature and extent of
their interest during deliberations concerning the proposed award of such a
contract, but shall not participate in any further deliberations concerning the
proposed award. Such interested member or members shall not vote on such a
proposed award. Any member or members abstaining from participation in
deliberations and voting under this section may be considered present for
purposes of establishing a quorum. Award of such a contract shall require
approval by a majority vote of those members presently holding office.
Consideration and award of any such contract in which a member or members are
interested may only be made at a regularly scheduled public meeting of the
governing body of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10
§ 30.11 CLAIMS.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the village for goods purchased,
damaged or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance shall be presented on or before
the first Tuesday preceding the monthly meeting to the Village Clerk. All such
claims must be in writing and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the Village Board from passing on
any claims not previously presented to the Village Clerk if, in the opinion of
the Board, justice to the claimant requires it.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-29)
§ 30.12 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year shall commence on May 1 and shall end on the following
April 30. No appointments shall be made during the last month of the municipal
year in the year of a mayoral election.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-30)
§ 30.13 OFFICIAL RECORDS.
   All official records, including the corporate seal, shall be kept in the
Village Hall.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-32)
§ 30.14 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES shall mean all employees of the village, eligible
under the federal act, except persons elected to office by popular election and
also the Village Treasurer and Village Attorney.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid quarterly.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-33)
§ 30.15 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A) Generally. The village does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois
Municipal Retirement Fund.
   (B)   Special tax. The village includes in its levy and appropriation
ordinance provision for the levying of a special tax to pay the village’s cost
of participating in the Retirement Fund and appropriate therefrom funds to pay
the cost of participation.
   (C)   Coverage. To be eligible to be included in the IMRF, a person shall
have to work a minimum of 1,000 hours per year.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-34)
Cross-reference:
   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, see § 33.095
ORDINANCES
§ 30.30 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Attorney. It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to prepare such
ordinances as may be required by the Village Board.
   (B)   Introduced. When a proposed ordinance is introduced, it shall be read
one time by title only and referred to the proper committee unless the Board of
Trustees shall otherwise specifically direct.
   (C)   Vote required; yeas and nays record. The passage of all ordinances for
whatever purpose, and of any resolution or motion to create any liability
against a village or for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall
require the concurrence of a majority of all members then holding office on the
Village Board, including the Mayor, unless otherwise expressly provided by the
code or any other act governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution or
motion; provided that, where the Board consists of an odd number of Trustees,
the vote of the majority of the trustees shall be sufficient to pass an
ordinance. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
the designated ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in the journal
of the Village Board. In addition, the corporate authorities at any meeting may
by unanimous consent to take a single vote by yeas or nays on the several
questions of the passage on any two or more of the designated ordinances,
orders, resolutions or motions placed together for voting purposes in a single
group. The single vote shall be entered separately in the journal under the
designation “omnibus vote”, and in such event the Clerk may enter the words
“omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering names of the members of Village Board voting “yea” and of those voting
“nay” on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions
and motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda. The taking of
such single or omnibus vote and such entries of the words “omnibus vote” or
“consent agenda” in the journal shall be a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of this section to all intents and purposes and with like effect
as if the vote in each case had been separately by yeas and nays on the
question of the passage of each ordinance, order, resolution and motion
included in such omnibus group, and separately recorded in the journal.
Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
any other resolution or motion at the request of any Trustee and shall be
recorded in the journal.
   (D)   Ordinances; approval; veto. All resolutions and motions which create
any liability against a village, or that provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of its money, or to sell any village property, and all
ordinances, passed by the Village Board shall be deposited with the Village
Clerk. If the Mayor approved of them, he or she shall sign them. Those
ordinances, resolutions and motions which the Mayor disapproves shall be
returned to the Village Board, with his or her written objections, at the next
regular meeting of the Village Board occurring not less than five days after
their passage. The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in
any ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation, and, if so, the
remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of an
ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the Mayor fails to
return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with his or her
written objections, within the designated time, it shall become effective
despite the absence of the Mayor’s signature.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45
§ 30.31 RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO.
   Every resolution and motion, specified in §
30.30, and every ordinance, that is returned to the Village Board by the Mayor
shall be reconsidered by the Village Board at the next regular meeting. If,
after reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Trustees then holding office on
the Village Board shall agree at that regular meeting to pass an ordinance,
resolution or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to approve it, then
it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor’s
veto shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50
§ 30.32 NO VOTE TO BE RECONSIDERED AT SPECIAL MEETING.
   No vote of the Village Board shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special
meeting unless there are present at the special meeting at least as many
Village Trustees as were present when the vote was taken.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55
SALARIES
§ 30.45 SALARIES REGULATION.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-28)
Editor’s note:
   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established in the
appropriation ordinance or annual budget. The salary of elected officials must
be established in an ordinance other than the appropriation ordinance at least
six months prior to the general municipal election in which voting is held for
those offices.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-6
§ 30.46 SALARIES OF VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The following salaries are hereby established for elected village officials.
   (A)   Mayor. Beginning May 2021, the newly elected Mayor shall receive $750
per month ($9,000 per year).
   (B)   Trustees. Beginning May 2019, newly elected Village Trustees shall
receive $300 per month.
   (C)   Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall be paid an hourly wage as
provided in the appropriation ordinance.
   (D)   Village Treasurer. The Village Treasurer shall be paid a salary as
provided in the appropriation ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 1-3-1) (Ord. 96-107, passed 9-10-1996; Minutes of 11-14-2000;
Ord. 2016-12, passed 10-11-2016; Ord. 2017-7, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2018-40,
passed 10-9-2018; Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-12-2019)
Editor’s note:
   The salaries of elected officials who hold elective office for a definite
term shall neither be increased nor diminished during that term and shall be
fixed at least 180 days before to a general municipal election in which voting
is held for those offices.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10, 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-50-15
MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
§ 30.60 PARTICIPATION.
   The Village Board of Trustees does hereby authorize and approve membership
in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association and directs the
Mayor and Clerk to execute an intergovernmental cooperation contract with the
Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association for membership for a
period of one year beginning the date the Association commences providing risk
coverage to its members and each year thereafter unless this subchapter is
repealed.
(1999 Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 30.61 CONTRIBUTION.
   Each member hereby agrees to contribute to the Association a sum of money to
be determined by the Association at the time of application based on the needs
of the Association and the loss experience of the member, which sum shall
constitute the cost of the member’s first year contribution for membership in
the Association. Membership contributions for second and subsequent years shall
be calculated in accordance with the loss experience of the village, and the
needs of the Association including total losses and expenditures of the Self-
Insured Retention Fund of the Association.
(1999 Code, § 1-4-2)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Village Board of Trustees
   
31.001   Composition and general powers
   
31.002   Regular meetings
   
31.003   Special meetings
   
31.004   Vacancy
   
31.005   Committees
   
31.006   Special committees
   
31.007   Quorum
   
31.008   Members; non-attendance at meeting
   
31.009   Rules of the Board
   
31.010   Agenda
   
31.011   Public comment
   
31.012   Remote participation in meetings
Mayor
   
31.025   Election
   
31.026   Mayor Pro-Tem; temporary Chairperson
   
31.027   Vacancy
   
31.028   Chief executive officer
   
31.029   Mayor’s signature
   
31.030   Appointment of officers
   
31.031   Supervise conduct of officers; removal of officers
   
31.032   Designation of officers’ duties
   
31.033   Formal occasions
   
31.034   General duties
   
31.035   Business License Commissioner
   
31.036   Health Commissioner
   
31.037   Deciding vote; Mayor
Village Clerk
   
31.050   Appointed
   
31.051   Vacancy
   
31.052   Publication of ordinances; Board minutes; records
   
31.053   Delivery of papers to officers
   
31.054   Preparation of documents, commissions and licenses
   
31.055   Report of licenses
   
31.056   Delivery of licenses
   
31.057   Administration of oaths
   
31.058   Outstanding bonds
   
31.059   Reports
   
31.060   Successor
   
31.061   Payments
   
31.062   Notification to persons appointed to office
   
31.063   Other duties
   
31.064   Deputy Clerk
Village Treasurer
   
31.075   Department established
   
31.076   Finance Committee
   
31.077   Treasurer appointed; vacancy
   
31.078   Money; warrants; accounts; payments
   
31.079   Warrant register
   
31.080   Personal use of funds
   
31.081   Bond
   
31.082   Special assessments
   
31.083   Bookkeeping
   
31.084   Statements
   
31.085   Report delinquent officers
   
31.086   Year-end report
   
31.087   Submit appropriation to Village Board
   
31.088   Deposit of funds
Judiciary
   
31.100   Appointment of Attorney
   
31.101   Duties
Village Engineer
   
31.115   Appointment
   
31.116   Duties; salary
Superintendent of Water and Sewer
   
31.130   Office created
   
31.131   Utility systems
   
31.132   Department employees
   
31.133   Property custodian
Superintendent of Streets
   
31.145   Office created
   
31.146   Streets
   
31.147   Lighting
   
31.148   Department employees
   
31.149   Property custodian
Code Enforcement Officer; Zoning Administrator
   
31.160   Creation of position
   
31.161   Duties
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 31.001 COMPOSITION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   The Village Board shall consist of six Trustees, elected in conformity with
this code and state laws governing elections in villages and shall have such
powers as are granted by 65 ILCS, as amended. The term of office shall be for
four years or until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(D)
§ 31.002 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular stated meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the
Village Hall Building on the second Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m. When the
meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the
following day at the same hour and place, unless otherwise designated.
Adjourned and reconvened meetings may be held at such times as may be
determined by the Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-2) (Ord. 95-105, passed 6-13-1995; Ord. 2019-08, passed 5-14-
2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq., 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25
§ 31.003 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Village Board may be called by the Mayor or any
three Trustees by giving at least 48 hours’ notice thereof by delivering to
them personally written or printed notices of the same of such meeting at the
residences of the Trustees. Such notices shall be served by mail or email, by
the Chief of Police or his or her designated representative. Said notices shall
specify the purpose of said special meeting and the business to be taken up at
that time and place. Such notice shall be posted at the Village Hall and on the
village website and shall be provided to any local newspaper of general
circulation or any local radio or television station that has filed an annual
request for such notice. Said notice shall be provided to such news media in
the same manner as said notice is given to the Mayor and members of the Village
Board, provided such news media has given the village an address within the
village at which such notice may be given.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.02, 5 ILCS 120/2.03, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-
25
§ 31.004 VACANCY.
   When a vacancy occurs, if more than 28 months in the term and the vacancy
occurs not less than 130 days before the general municipal election, next
scheduled under the general election law, the office shall be filled for the
remainder of the term at that general municipal election. During the period
from the time that the vacancy occurs until the next election of Trustees, the
Mayor shall appoint a qualified person to the office subject to the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(B)
§ 31.005 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following standing committees of the Village Board are hereby
established, to-wit:
      (1)   Finance/Ordinance;
      (2)   Streets;
      (3)   Health and Safety;
      (4)   Police;
      (5)   Building and Grounds;
      (6)   Water/Sewer;
      (7)   Personnel; and
      (8)   Golf.
   (B)   The committees shall be appointed annually by the Mayor. In addition,
the Mayor shall appoint the Chairperson of each committee.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be ex officio Chairperson of each and every standing
committee.
   (D)   So far as is practicable, reports of committee shall be in writing.
   (E)   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the Board shall be
deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the same after
the report is made, upon the request of any two Trustees present.
   (F)   Each standing committee of the Village Board shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the department of municipal government with
which it is connected; shall ascertain the condition and needs of said
department; shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and Village
Board so that a full understanding thereof may be had, and generally, shall do
all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
   (G)   All committee meetings are subject to the Open Meeting Act, being 5
ILCS 120 requirements and minutes shall be taken.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-5) (Ord. 96-101, passed 6-11-1996; Ord. 03/08/11-1, passed 3-
8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/1, 5 ILCS 120/2.06, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35
§ 31.006 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, as may be needed from time to time.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 31.007 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the Village Board, a majority of the corporate
authorities shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and if
no such quorum attends such meeting of the Board, the Trustees may adjourn from
day to day until a quorum is present; and shall have power to compel the
attendance of absent members, except when such members are physically unable to
attend such meetings.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-7)
Editor’s note:
   When the Board has a Mayor and six Trustees, a quorum is four, which may
consist of the Mayor and three Trustees or four Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 31.008 MEMBERS; NON-ATTENDANCE AT MEETING.
   Any member of the Village Board who shall neglect or refuse to attend a
regular and/or special Village Board meeting per month without good and
sufficient reason to be passed upon by the Board shall not receive compensation
for that meeting. (See §
30.46 for salaries.)
(1999 Code, § 1-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 31.009 RULES OF THE BOARD.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the Village Board.
   (A)   Order of business. The order of business shall be as follows:
      (1)   Call to order by presiding officer;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of minutes: the reading of the journal of the proceedings
of the last preceding meeting or meetings, and correction and approval of the
same, unless dispensed with by the Board of Trustees and correction of the
journal of the proceedings of previous meetings;
      (4)   Mayor’s report: reports and communications from the Mayor and other
village officers;
      (5)   Approval of Treasurer’s reports and claims;
      (6)   Public visitors;
      (7)   Committee reports: reports of standing committees;
      (8)   Reports of special committees;
      (9)   Ordinances: presentation of communications, petitions, resolutions,
orders and ordinances by the Board of Trustees;
      (10)   Unfinished business; and
      (11)   Miscellaneous business. All questions relating to the priority of
business shall be decided by the Chair without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of presiding officer. The presiding officer shall preserve
order and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other
Trustees, and shall decide all question of order, subject to appeal.
   (C)   Duties of members.
      (1)   While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member
shall walk across or out of the Board chamber.
      (2)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized
and named by the Chair. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the
question under debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the
motives of any other Trustee’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Board of Trustees shall
address that body on the same question unless such person has been recognized
by the presiding officer.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a Trustee wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
he or she shall send it to the desk of the Clerk who shall read such matter
when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate.
      (1)   No Trustee shall speak more than once on the same question, except
by consent of the presiding officer or unless three-fourths of the corporate
authorities agree that one’s right to debate should be limited to speak only
once and then not until every other Trustee desiring to speak shall have had an
opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the proponent of the matter under
consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close
debate.
      (2)   No Trustee shall speak longer than ten minutes at any one time,
except by consent of the Village Board; and in closing debate on any question
as above provided, the speaker shall be limited to five minutes, except by
special consent of the Board.
      (3)   The Village Board, by motion, may limit debate. The presiding
officer shall have the right to participate in debate.
      (4)   While a member is speaking, no Trustee shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   Call of Trustees to order. A Trustee, when called to order by the
Chair, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat and the
order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to
the right to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decision of the Chair.
      (1)   Any Trustee may appeal to the Board from a ruling of the Chair, and
if the appeal is seconded, the Trustee making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other person shall
participate in the discussion. The presiding officer shall have the right to
participate in debate.
      (2)   The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the
Chair be sustained?”. If a majority of the Trustees present vote “No”, the
decision of the Chair shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Board on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every other member who shall be present when a question is
stated from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless he or she is personally
interested in the question, in which case, he or she shall take whatever steps
are necessary to ensure that his or her vote is not taken.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the Village Board may be
set down as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds of the
Trustees present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every motion in the Board, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing if required by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Trustees, by a majority vote of the Trustees
present may divide such question.
   (N)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Trustee moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (O)   Announcement and changes of vote. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or her to
the Chairperson for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally
list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (P)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is under debate, the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To take a recess;
         (d)   To lay on the table;
         (e)   The previous question;
         (f)   To refer;
         (g)   To amend;
         (h)   To defer or postpone, to a time certain;
         (i)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and
         (j)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Divisions (P)(1)(b), (P)(1)(d) and (P)(1)(e) above are to be
decided without debate.
   (Q)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the village shall always be in order, except:
         (a)   When a Trustee is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The Village Board may, at any time, adjourn over one or more
regular meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Trustees authorized by law
to be elected.
   (R)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question and seconded, it shall be put on this form: “Shall the main question
now be put?”. If such motion be carried, all further amendments and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendment in proper order and then upon the main question.
   (S)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion simply to lay the question on the table shall not be
debatable, but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other
condition shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table, provided two-thirds of the Trustees vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular, motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition, only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (T)   Indefinite postponement: motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time.
      (1)   When consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (U)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (V)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order;
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (3)   On an amendment to “strike out and insert”, the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
      (4)   An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (W)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (X)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible; and if
accepted by the Trustees by a vote shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment; as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (Y)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration having been once made and decided in the negative shall not be
renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by Trustees who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (Z)   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order Revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
Rules of Order Revised shall govern the Board in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of the
Board.
   (AA)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the corporate authorities
entitled by law to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered or amended,
unless by concurrence of two-thirds of all the corporate authorities entitled
by law to be elected.
   (BB)   Censure of Trustees; expulsion of Trustees. Any Trustee acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene and
insulting language to or about any member of the Board, or who does not obey
the order of the Chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of the
members present, or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all Trustees elected.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15
§ 31.010 AGENDA.
   An itemized agenda, along with all necessary supporting documentation shall
be furnished to each member of the Village Board no later than the close of
business on the day preceding the regular Village Board meeting. In the case of
matters of emergency which could not have been reasonably foreseen in
sufficient time to comply with this section, a revised agenda shall be
furnished to each member of the Village Board two working days prior to Board
meeting.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.02
§ 31.011 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   Members of the general public may address the Mayor and Board of Trustees,
or any other body convened in a public meeting for the purpose of conducting
municipal business, at that point on the agenda designated “public comment”. A
member of the general public may speak for a period of up to five minutes,
which may be extended for additional successive five-minute periods at the
discretion of the presiding officer. The body need not respond to questions
posed by members of the general public but may do so at the discretion of the
presiding officer. Members of the general public whose comments are disruptive
of the proceedings may be asked to leave peaceably or may otherwise be escorted
from the premises.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-13) (Ord. 07/12/2011-1, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 31.012 REMOTE PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts a policy that permits a member of the public
body to attend and participate in any meeting of a public body as defined in
the Open Meetings Act from a remote location via telephone, video, or internet
connection provided that such attendance and participation is in compliance
with this section and any applicable laws.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that a member of any group associated
with the village which is subject to the provisions of the Open Meetings Act (a
"covered group") may attend and participate in any open or closed meeting of
that covered group from a remote location via telephone, video or internet
connection, provided that such attendance and participation is in compliance
with this section, the Open Meetings Act, and any other applicable laws.
   (C)   A member of the covered group of the village shall be provided the
opportunity to attend an open or closed meeting from a remote location if the
member meets that following conditions and a majority of a quorum of the
covered body votes to approve the remote attendance:
      (1)   The member must notify the recording secretary or clerk of the
covered body at least 24 hours before the meeting unless advance notice is
impractical;
      (2)   The member must be unable to physically attend the meeting, for one
of the following reasons:
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the village; or
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency;
and
      (3)   A quorum of the covered body must be physically present.
   (D)   After roll call, a vote of the covered body shall be taken considering
the prerequisites set forth in division (C), on whether to allow an off-site
member to participate remotely. All the members physically present are
permitted to vote on whether remote participation will be allowed. A vote may
be taken to permit remote participation for a stated series of meetings if the
same reason applies in each case. Otherwise, a vote must be taken to allow each
remote participation.
   (E)   The member participating remotely shall be counted as present.
(Ord. 2020-29, passed 11-17-2020)
MAYOR
§ 31.025 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until a
successor is elected and has qualified.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-40)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-15
§ 31.026 MAYOR PRO-TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   If the Mayor is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to perform
official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the office,
the corporate authorities shall elect one of their members to act as Mayor Pro-
Tem. The Mayor Pro-Tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform the
duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor but shall not be
entitled to vote both as Mayor Pro-Tem and as a Trustee.
   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor, or Mayor Pro-Tem, the corporate
authorities may elect one of their members to act as a temporary Chairperson.
The temporary Chairperson shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and
a right to vote only in the capacity as Trustee on any ordinance, resolution or
motion.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-41)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/31-35-35
§ 31.027 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term of at least 28 months and the vacancy occurs at
least 130 days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the
general election law, the vacancy shall be filled at that general municipal
election. The Village Board shall elect one of its members as Acting Mayor who
shall perform the duties and shall possess all the rights and powers of the
Mayor until a successor to fill the vacancy has been elected and has qualified.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-42)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 31.028 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the village and shall see
to the enforcement of all laws and ordinances. The Mayor shall preside over the
meetings of the Board of Trustees and perform such duties as may be required of
him or her by statute or law. The Mayor shall have supervision over all of the
executive officers and village employees; provided, however, his or her control
is subject to the power of the Village Board to prescribe the duties of various
officers and employees. The Mayor shall have the power and authority at any
reasonable time to inspect all books, papers and records pertaining to village
affairs and kept by any officer of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-43)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20
§ 31.029 MAYOR’S SIGNATURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall sign all village warrants, commissions, permits and
licenses granted by authority of the Village Board, except as otherwise
provided, and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or
her official signature.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor may designate another to affix his or her signature to
any written instrument that requires the Mayor’s signature.
      (2)   The Mayor must send written notice of this designation to the
Village Board stating:
         (a)   The name of the person whom he or she has selected; and
         (b)   What instrument the person will have authority to sign.
   (C)   A written signature of the Mayor executed by the person so designated
with the signature underneath the signature of the person so designated shall
be attached to the notice. The notice with the signature attached shall be
recorded in the journal of the Village Board and then filed with the Village
Clerk. When the signature of the Mayor is placed on a written instrument at the
direction of the Mayor in the specified manner, the instrument, in all
respects, shall be as binding on the village as if signed by the Mayor in
person.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-45)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30
§ 31.030 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointed. At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Village Board, all officers
of the village whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing month or year, and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall
issue a commission or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to
office in the municipality.
   (B)   Filling vacancies. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the Village Board, all officers of the village whose appointment
will not otherwise be provided for by law; and whenever a vacancy shall occur
in any office, which by law or ordinance the Mayor is empowered and required to
fill, the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting of the Village Board,
communicate to it the name of the appointee to such office and pending the
concurrence of the Village Board in such appointment, the Mayor may designate
some suitable person to discharge the functions of such office.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-46)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.031 SUPERVISE CONDUCT OF OFFICERS; REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the village
and see that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their
respective offices. Except where otherwise provided by statute, the Mayor may
remove any officer appointed by the Mayor under this code, on any written
charge, whenever the Mayor is of the opinion that the interests of the
municipality demand removal. The Mayor shall report the reasons for the removal
to the corporate authorities at a meeting to be held not less than five days
nor more than ten days after the removal.
   (B)   If the Mayor fails or refuses to report to the corporate authorities
the reasons for the removal, or if the corporate authorities by a two-thirds
vote of all members authorized by law to be elected disapprove of the removal,
the officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which the officer
was removed.
   (C)   The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which shall be entered upon the
journal of the corporate authorities.
   (D)   Upon restoration, the officer shall give a new bond and take a new
oath of office.
   (E)   No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-47)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10
§ 31.032 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the Village Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the
power to delegate to any appointive officer, any duty which is to be performed
when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-48)
§ 31.033 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the village on formal occasions and
receptions, but in the absence or inability to attend any such function, the
Mayor may select any other village officer to so act.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-49)
§ 31.034 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   (B)   The Mayor from time to time, may and annually shall give the Village
Board information relative to the affairs of the village, and may recommend for
its consideration such measures as he or she believes expedient.
   (C)   It shall be within the Mayor’s discretion to make payments, emergency
purchases, to enter into contracts and make acquisitions no more than $500 when
the Mayor deems that said expenditure is in the best interest of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-50) (Ord. 2017-18, passed 10-10-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5
§ 31.035 BUSINESS LICENSE COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as License Commissioner to issue and revoke
any and all business licenses as prescribed by law, with the advice and consent
of the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-51)
§ 31.036 HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health Commissioner with all powers to
abate and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village authority as prescribed by law.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-52)
§ 31.037 DECIDING VOTE; MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Village Board. The
Mayor shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion, except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Trustees elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by state statutes to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion.
   (B)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in
his or her capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-54)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.050 APPOINTED.
   The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Village Board and shall serve until a successor is appointed and
has qualified.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-56)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.051 VACANCY.
   The City Clerk shall remain in office without further appointment. The
Clerk’s appointment may be rescinded, upon motion made, and seconded, and by
vote of two-thirds of the Board of Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-57)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90
§ 31.052 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES; BOARD MINUTES; RECORDS.
   (A)   Ordinances. The Village Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed by the
Village Board and approved by the Mayor, imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation to be published or
printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the corporate
authorities, or be published at least once within 30 days after passage, in one
or more newspapers published in the village.
   (B)   Minutes; records. The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the
Village Board and shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “The Journal of
the Village Board”, a full and faithful record of its proceedings. The Village
Clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the Village Board, and at the foot of the record of each
ordinance so recorded, the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the
passage, when published and a memorandum of the publication of such ordinance.
   (C)   Bonds. The Clerk shall also record in proper books for the purpose,
all official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was
entered of record and the book and pages where recorded.
   (D)   Issue notices. The Clerk shall issue and cause to be served upon all
Trustees, notices of all special meetings of the Village Board; also notices to
the members of the different committees of that body and all persons whose
attendance may be required before any such committee, when so directed by the
Chairperson thereof.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-58)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-
90, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110
§ 31.053 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   The Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the Village Board and
to the officers of this village, all petitions, communications, reports and
resolutions, orders, claims and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the Board on demand therefor. The Clerk shall also, without delay,
deliver to the Mayor, all ordinances or resolutions, orders and claims in his
or her charge which may require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the
Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-59)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90
§ 31.054 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and the Clerk shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this
village.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-60)
§ 31.055 REPORT OF LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall report to the Village Board at its regular meeting each
month and oftener if the Board so requires the data contained in the license
register with respect to licenses issued during the previous month.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-61)
§ 31.056 DELIVERY OF LICENSES.
   In all cases where the village requires a license to be obtained for the
purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation, and the
licensee is required to obtain plates, tags or stickers from the Clerk, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver such plates, tags or stickers to the
person paying the license fee.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-62)
§ 31.057 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for all
lawful purposes.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-63)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20
§ 31.058 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose, a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the village,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds are issued,
and when the village bonds are issued, or purchased, or paid, or cancelled, the
book or books shall show that fact; (and in the annual report, the Clerk shall
describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms of sale with
each and every item of expense thereof).
(1999 Code, § 1-2-64)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110
§ 31.059 REPORTS.
   The Clerk shall, on or before the regular meeting in each month, make out
and submit to the Village Board a statement or report in writing of all the
monies received and warrants drawn during the preceding month, showing therein
from or what sources and on what account monies were received, and for what
purposes and on what account the warrants were drawn or paid.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-65)
§ 31.060 SUCCESSOR.
   The Village Clerk shall carefully preserve all books, records, papers, maps
and effects of every detail and description belonging to the village or
pertaining to the office, and not in actual use and possession of other village
officers; and upon the expiration of his or her official term, the Clerk shall
deliver all such books, records, papers and effects to the successor in office.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-66)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35
§ 31.061 PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare daily an itemized list of all monies received and
shall deliver a copy of the same to the Village Treasurer and shall also pay
over to the Treasurer all monies received in the office and take a receipt
therefor.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-67)
§ 31.062 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS APPOINTED TO OFFICE.
   Within five days after an appointment is made, the Clerk shall notify all
persons appointed to office of their appointment. The office becomes vacant
unless the person appointed qualifies within ten days after such notice.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-68)
§ 31.063 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to the office as are or may be imposed upon the office by law
or resolution or ordinance of the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-69)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40
§ 31.064 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk, when authorized by the Village Board, may appoint
the Deputy Clerk who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required by any law to be executed by the Clerk and affix the seal of the
village thereto whenever required. In signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk
shall sign the name of the Village Clerk followed with the word, “By” and the
Deputy Clerk’s name and the words, “Deputy Clerk”.
   (B)   The powers and duties herein described shall be executed by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the Village Clerk from the Village Clerk’s
office in the Village Hall, and only when either written direction has been
given by the Village Clerk to such Deputy Clerk to exercise such power or the
Village Board has determined by resolution that the Village Clerk is
temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such functions.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-70)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10, 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-35-95
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.075 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village which shall be known as the “Finance Department”. It shall embrace the
Finance Committee and the Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-72)
§ 31.076 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The standing committee on finance shall exercise a general supervision over
the affairs of the Finance Department. It shall ascertain the condition and
needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and
Village Board so that a full understanding thereof shall be had and generally,
shall do all the acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-73)
§ 31.077 TREASURER APPOINTED; VACANCY.
   (A) The Treasurer shall be appointed, by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall remain in office without further appointment. The
Treasurer’s appointment may be rescinded, upon motion made, and seconded, and
by vote of two-thirds of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall serve until a successor is appointed and has
qualified.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-74) (Ord. 10/09/07-1, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 31.078 MONEY; WARRANTS; ACCOUNTS; PAYMENTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to this village and
shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Village
Clerk and not otherwise; and shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto. The Treasurer shall
give to every person paying money into the village treasury a receipt therefor,
specifying the date of payment, and upon what account paid, and shall file
copies of such receipts with the Clerk with the monthly reports.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-75)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40
§ 31.079 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid,
showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from which paid, and the
name of the person to whom and when paid; and the Treasurer shall cancel all
warrants as soon as they are redeemed.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-76)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45
§ 31.080 PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the municipality
and in the Treasurer’s custody separate and distinct from the Treasurer’s own
money and shall not use, either directly or indirectly, the municipality’s
monies or warrants for the personal use and benefit of the Treasurer or of any
other person. Any violation of this provision shall subject the Treasurer to
immediate removal from office by the corporate authorities, who may declare the
Treasurer’s office vacant.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-77)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55
§ 31.081 BOND.
   The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his or her duties and to indemnify the village for any loss due to neglect of
duty or wrongful act on his or her part; and the amount of such bond shall not
be less than 10% of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments
received by the Treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding five fiscal
years, nor less than one and one-half times the largest amount which the Board
estimates will be in his or her custody at any one time, nor less than three
times the number of residents of the village, as determined by the last census.
Such bond shall be filed with the Clerk as required by statute.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-78)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45
§ 31.082 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall collect all payments on special assessments and shall
see to it that the same are properly recorded and credited to the particular
account entitled thereto.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-79)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85
§ 31.083 BOOKKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep the books and accounts in such a manner as to show
with accuracy, all monies received and disbursed for the village, stating from
whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what account paid out,
and in such a way that the books and accounts may be readily investigated and
understood, and the books and accounts and all files and papers of the office
shall be, at all times, open to examination by the Mayor or the Finance
Committee of the Board.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-80)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40
§ 31.084 STATEMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at the regular
monthly meeting, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
of the municipality as shown by his or her books up to the time of the report.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-81)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45
§ 31.085 REPORT DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to report to the Village Clerk any
officer of the village authorized to receive money for the use of the village
who may fail to make a return of the monies received by the Treasurer at the
time required by law or by ordinances of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-82)
§ 31.086 YEAR-END REPORT.
   (A)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the Treasurer
shall prepare and file annually with the Village Clerk an account of monies
received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year as
specified in this section.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall show the following in such account:
      (1)   All monies received by the village, indicating the total amounts in
the aggregate received in each account of the village, with a general statement
concerning the source of such receipts; provided, however, for the purposes of
this division (B)(1), the term “account” shall not be construed to mean each
individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user or such other persons
whose payments to the village are credited to the general account;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, all monies paid out by
the village where the total amount paid during the fiscal year exceeds $2,500,
giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid, and the
total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
      (3)   All monies paid out by the village as compensation for personal
services, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid,
and the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
and
      (4)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account groups
of the village as excerpted from the annual financial report, as filed with the
appropriate state agency of the state.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such account from the Village Treasurer, the Village
Clerk shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers
published in the village.
   (D)   Note: the Treasurer shall file a copy of the report with the County
Treasurer as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-83)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65
§ 31.087 SUBMIT APPROPRIATION TO VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall on or before May 15 in each year, and before the
annual appropriations to be made by the Village Board, submit to the Village
Board a report of the estimates as nearly as may be of monies necessary to
defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal year. The
Treasurer shall, in said report, classify the different objects and branches of
expenditures, giving as nearly as may be the amount required for each; and for
the purpose of making such a report, the Treasurer is hereby authorized to
require of all officers their statement of the condition and expenses of their
respective offices or departments with any proposed improvements, and the
probable expense thereof, all contracts made and unfinished and the amount of
any and all unexpended appropriations of the preceding year.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall, in such report, show the aggregate income of the
preceding fiscal year, from all sources, the amount of liabilities outstanding
upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable during the year,
when due and when payable; and in such report, shall give such other
information to the Village Board as he or she may deem necessary to the end
that the Village Board may fully understand the money exigencies and demands
upon the corporation for the current year.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-84)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115
§ 31.088 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Designation by Board: the Treasurer is hereby required to keep all
funds and monies in his or her custody belonging to the village in such places
of deposit as have been designated by division (D) below. When requested by the
Treasurer, the corporate authorities shall designate a bank or banks in which
may be kept the funds and monies of the village in the custody of the
Treasurer. When a bank or savings and loan association has been designated as a
depository, it shall continue as such depository until ten days have elapsed
after a new depository is designated and has qualified by furnishing the
statements of resources and liabilities as required by this section. When a new
depository is designated, the corporate authorities shall notify the sureties
of the Municipal Treasurer of that fact in writing at least five days before
the transfer of funds. The Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility
for all funds or money that the Treasurer deposits in a designated bank or
savings and loan association while the funds and money are so deposited.
   (B)   The Municipal Treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan
association to deposit with the Treasurer securities or mortgages that have a
market value at least equal to the amount of the funds or monies of the
municipality deposited with the bank or savings and loan association that
exceeds the insurance limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
   (C)   The Municipal Treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite or
indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment, reinvestment or
withdrawal of municipal funds.
   (D)   (1)   Each Municipal Treasurer may:
         (a)   Combine monies from more than one fund of a single municipality
for the purpose of investing those funds; and
         (b)   Join with other municipal treasurers or municipalities for the
purpose of investing the municipal funds of which the Treasurer has custody.
      (2)   Joint investments shall be made only in investments authorized by
law for the investment of municipal funds; when monies of more than one fund of
a single municipality or monies of more than one municipality are combined for
investment purposes, the monies combined for that purpose shall be accounted
for separately in all respects and the earnings from investments shall be
separately and individually computed, recorded, and credited to the fund or
municipality, as the case may be, for which the investment was acquired.
   (E)   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds as
permitted by this section unless it has complied with the requirements
established by § 6 of the Public Funds Investment Act.
   (F)   The following bank(s) are herewith designated as places of deposit
where the Treasurer of the village is required to keep all funds and monies in
his or her custody belonging to this municipality:
      (1)   Ayars Bank;
      (2)   DeWitt Savings Bank;
      (3)   Illinois State Treasurer’s Investment Pool; and
      (4)   Shelby County State Bank and all other financial institutions as
approved by the Board of Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-85)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 30 ILCS 235/6, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50
JUDICIARY
§ 31.100 APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY.
   The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advise and
consent of the Village Board for the term of one year, unless sooner removed
for cause, and until a successor shall have been appointed and qualified. The
Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs of the village and shall be
known as the Village Attorney and shall receive an annual salary as determined
by the appropriation ordinance, compensation for office services and advice,
and shall receive reasonable fees for other services rendered when, in his or
her judgment, or in the judgment of the Mayor or Village Board, the same are
necessary or are for the best interests of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-88)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.101 DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecute for village. The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend
on behalf of the village in all cases in which the interests of the corporation
or any officer thereof are involved; and the Village Clerk shall furnish him or
her with certified copies of any ordinance, bond or paper in keeping necessary
to be filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
   (B)   Preparation of ordinances. The Attorney shall, when required, advise
the Village Board or any officer in all matters of law in which the interests
of the corporation are involved, and shall draw such ordinances, bonds, forms
and contracts, or examine and pass upon the same, as may be required by the
Mayor, the Village Board or any committee thereof.
   (C)   Judgments. The Attorney shall direct executions to be issued upon all
judgments recovered in favor of the village, and shall direct their prompt
service. The Attorney shall examine all the bills of the officers of courts,
and of other officers of the law, and shall certify to their correctness and
the liability of the village therefore.
   (D)   Violations of ordinances. The Attorney shall institute and prosecute
an action in every case of violation of a village ordinance when instructed to
do so by the Mayor or the Village Board.
   (E)   Prosecution of suits. The Attorney shall not be required to prosecute
any suit or action arising under the ordinances of the village when, upon
investigation of the same, the Attorney shall become satisfied that the
complaint was instituted maliciously, vexatiously or without just cause; and
shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as he
or she may deem just or equitable.
   (F)   Collection of taxes. The Attorney is hereby authorized and instructed
to enforce the collection of any and all taxes and special assessments in the
collection of which the village is interested and to attend all sales of real
or personal property made to enforce the collection of such taxes or special
assessments and to bid thereat on behalf of the village.
   (G)   Commissions. The Village Attorney shall act as the legal advisory for
the Utilities Systems, for the Planning and Zoning Commission, for the Planning
and Zoning Commission and for all other boards and commissions hereafter
established by the Village Board. The Attorney shall perform all legal services
as may be required for those boards and commissions.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-89)
VILLAGE ENGINEER
§ 31.115 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Engineer shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advise
and consent of the Board of Trustees for the term of one year, unless sooner
removed for cause, and until a successor shall have been appointed and
qualified.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-94)
§ 31.116 DUTIES; SALARY.
   The Village Engineer shall make and submit plans, estimates and
specifications for any public work which may be proposed or ordered by the
Village Board. The Engineer shall also examine all public works under his or
her charge and see that the plans, estimates and specifications for the same
are properly executed. The Engineer shall also receive a salary as established
in the annual budget.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-95)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-7-6
SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWER
§ 31.130 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created the office of Superintendent of Sewer and Water
Department. The said Superintendent shall be appointed by the President by and
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. Once appointed, said
Sewer and Water Superintendent shall remain in office without further
appointment until such time as said appointment shall be rescinded upon motion
duly made and seconded and by vote of two-thirds of the Board of Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-98) (Ord. 88-07, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 31.131 UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   The Superintendent shall have charge of the operation and maintenance of the
municipal water and sewer distribution systems as provided in Title V of this
code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-99)
§ 31.132 DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.
   All officers or employees assigned to the Department shall perform their
duties subject to the orders and under the supervision of the Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-100)
§ 31.133 PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.
   The Superintendent shall be the custodian of all property of the village
which is not assigned to the care or custody of any other officer.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-101)
SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS
§ 31.145 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created the office of Superintendent of Street and Alley
Department. The said Superintendent shall be appointed by the President by and
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. Once appointed, said
Superintendent shall remain in office without further appointment until such
time as said appointment shall be rescinded upon motion duly made and seconded
and by vote of two-thirds of the Board of Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-104) (Ord. 88-07, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 31.146 STREETS.
   The Superintendent shall have charge of the construction and care of all
public streets, alleys and driveways in the village, and with keeping the same
clean. The Superintendent shall see to it that all gutters and drains therein
function properly and that the same are kept free from defects. The
Superintendent shall perform all the duties and responsibilities outlined in
Chapters 93 and Chapter 94 of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-105)
§ 31.147 LIGHTING.
   The Superintendent shall supervise the lighting of the public streets and
alleys.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-106)
§ 31.148 DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.
   All officers or employees assigned to the Department shall perform their
duties subject to the orders and under the supervision of the Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-107)
§ 31.149 PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.
   The Superintendent shall be the custodian of all property of the village
which is not assigned to the care or custody of any other officer.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-108)
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; ZONING ADMINISTRATOR’
§ 31.160 CREATION OF POSITION.
   There is hereby created the position of Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall be hired under the provisions of §
31.030 of this code of ordinances. The Zoning Administrator shall also serve as
the Building Inspector, Floodplain Inspector and as the Code Enforcement
Officer. Additional duties shall be outlined in the Zoning Administrator’s job
description and may be amended from time to time by the Village Administrator.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-111)
§ 31.161 DUTIES.
   The Zoning Administrator or his or her authorized representative shall
administer and enforce the zoning code, as amended from time to time and is in
effect, in accordance with the powers and duties therein set forth, and in
furtherance of such authority shall:
   (A)   Issue all building permits and zoning certificates, and make and
maintain records thereof;
   (B)   Issue all certificates of occupancy, and make and maintain records
thereof;
   (C)   Issue building and zoning occupancy permits as authorized by the
zoning code;
   (D)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and land to determine
compliance with the zoning code and to notify in writing the person responsible
for any violation found, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it;
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or
structures; removal of illegal buildings, structures or illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes, discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by statute or by the zoning
code to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of the provisions;
   (F)   Prepare and cause to be published on or before March 31 of each year,
a map showing the existing zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations
and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31;
   (G)   Maintain permanent and current records of the zoning code, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments, special use permits, planned building
developments, variances, appeals and applications therefor;
   (H)   Provide and maintain a source of public information relative to all
matters arising out of the zoning code;
   (I)   Receive, file and forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission, all
applications for amendments, use variances and special permits, and other
matters upon which the Planning and Zoning Commission is required to act under
the zoning code;
   (J)   Receive, file and forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission all
applications for variance, appeals and other matters upon which the Planning
and Zoning Commission is required to act under the zoning code;
   (K)   Keep the Mayor and Village Board advised of zoning activities by
written report once each month, including statements of permits and
certificates issued and orders promulgated;
   (L)   The Zoning Administrator may request, and shall receive so far as may
be necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of the Chief of Police in enforcing orders, of the Village Attorney
in prosecuting violators and of other village officials and officers; and
   (M)   The Zoning Administrator shall perform other duties as a Code
Enforcement Officer as prescribed by laws and the village code and as may be
specifically assigned to him or her by the Village Board. Such laws and code
may include, but not be limited to, the mobile home code (Chapter 153 of this
code of ordinances), subdivision code (Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances)
and the building code (Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances), as adopted and
amended from time to time by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-112) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Term of office
   
32.04   Procedure
   
32.05   Powers and duties
   
32.06   Land subdivision or re-subdivision and the official map
   
32.07   Improvements
   
32.08   Further purposes
   
32.09   Expenditures
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   A Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby created under authority of 65
ILCS 5/11-12-4 through 5/11-12-12.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of seven members; said
members to be residents of the village, appointed by the Mayor on the basis of
their particular fitness for their duty on the Planning and Zoning Commission
and subject to the approval of the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 32.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The members shall serve for a period of five years. Vacancies shall be
filled by appointment for the unexpired term only. All members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation, except that if the Village Board
deems it advisable, they may receive such compensation as provided by the
Village Board by appropriation.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 32.04 PROCEDURE.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect such officers as it may deem
necessary and adopt rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with the village code and state law. The Commission shall keep
written records of its proceedings. It shall be open at all times for and to
the inspection of the public, and the Commission shall file an annual report
with the Mayor and Village Board, setting forth its transactions and
recommendations.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 32.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   (1)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits of the village and not included in any other municipality.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan or
part thereof of the village. Such plan shall be advisory except as to such part
thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the Village
Board; and
      (2)   All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of the plan and ordinances with
the Village Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. To provide for
the health, safety, comfort, and convenience of the inhabitants of the village
and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish reasonable
standards of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of unimproved land
and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as
herein defined and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the
location, width, course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys,
ways for public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential
purposes, storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers,
and sewage collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall
become regulatory only when adopted by law.
   (B)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
   (C)   To recommend to the Village Board, from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary;
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board, from time to time,
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance to the
official comprehensive plan;
   (E)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of, projects for improvements embraced within the official plan or parts
thereof, to further the1 making of such improvements and generally, to promote
the realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (G)   To cooperate with municipal or regional Planning and Zoning
Commissions and other agencies or groups to further the local plan program and
to assure harmonious and integrated planning for the area subject to approval
of the Village Board; and
   (H)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the state, as may be conferred
by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 32.06 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RE-SUBDIVISION AND THE OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which may consist of the whole area included within
the official comprehensive plan or one or more geographical or functional parts
and may include all or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area within
one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of the village. All
requirements for public hearing, filing notice of adoption with the County
Recorder of Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances, including the official
map with the Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. No map or
plat of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for record affecting land
within the corporate limits of the village or within contiguous territory which
is not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits shall be
entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon
provides for standards of design and standards governing streets, alleys,
public ways, ways for public service facilities, street lights, public grounds,
size of lots to be used for residential purposes, and distribution, sanitary
sewers, and sewage collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable
requirements of the code, including the official map.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-12
§ 32.07 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall furnish the Planning and Zoning Commission, for its
consideration, a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public
improvements of any nature. The Planning and Zoning Commission may report in
relation thereto, if it deems a report necessary or advisable, for the
consideration of the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-7) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 32.08 FURTHER PURPOSES.
   The Commission shall recommend the boundaries of districts for land use and
shall recommend regulations to the corporate authorities for the following:
   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   (B)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along the street, traffic way, drive, parkway, or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such
buildings;
   (D)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential and other uses;
   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area and of such different classes (according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area
of open spaces or other classification), as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purpose of this section;
   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this section.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-8) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 32.09 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures of the Commission shall be at the discretion of the Village
Board and if the Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice
or services, it shall be done upon authority of the Village Board and
appropriations by the Village Board therefore.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-9) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12
CHAPTER 33: EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL CODE
Section
Generally
   
33.001   Purpose
   
33.002   Definitions
   
33.003   Equal employment
Hiring Policy
   
33.010   Requirements
   
33.011   Residency
   
33.012   Application forms
   
33.013   Promotions
   
33.014   Probationary period
Wages and Classifications
   
33.020   Employment classifications
   
33.021   Paychecks
   
33.022   Compensation
   
33.023   Overtime
   
33.024   Salary increases
Hours of Work
   
33.030   Work week
   
33.031   Lunch
   
33.032   Time and attendance
   
33.033   Holiday pay
Leaves
   
33.040   Leave
   
33.041   Holidays
   
33.042   Vacation
   
33.043   Bereavement pay
   
33.044   Sick leave/personal days
   
33.045   Illness or injury at work
   
33.046   Maternity
   
33.047   Leaves of absence
Miscellaneous Benefits
   
33.060   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
33.061   Insurance
   
33.062   Training
   
33.063   Travel expense control
   
33.064   Death benefits
   
33.065   Travel
   
33.066   Reimbursement of other expenses
Regulations and Restrictions
   
33.080   Accidents/injuries
   
33.081   Appearance
   
33.082   Use of department property
   
33.083   Telephone usage
   
33.084   Correspondence and communications
   
33.085   Smoking
   
33.086   Photo IDs
   
33.087   Speech and dissemination of information
   
33.088   Relations with creditors
   
33.089   Possession of firearms
   
33.090   Ethics
   
33.091   Other employment
   
33.092   Physical examinations
   
33.093   Reimbursement of cost of training
   
33.094   Prescription drug use
   
33.095   Drug free workplace
Rights of Employees
   
33.110   Personnel file
   
33.111   References
   
33.112   Safety
   
33.113   Alcohol and drug problems
Rights of Employers
   
33.120   Village’s rights
   
33.121   New regulations
   
33.122   Management responsibilities
   
33.123   Length of service
   
33.124   Exemptions
Sexual Harassment Policy
   
33.130   Purpose of policy
   
33.131   Statement
   
33.132   Definition of sexual harassment
   
33.133   Responsibility of individual employees
   
33.134   Responsibility of supervisory personnel
   
33.135   Procedures for filing a complaint
   
33.136   Training
   
33.137   False and frivolous
Discipline
   
33.150   Procedure
   
33.151   Verbal reprimand
   
33.152   Written reprimand
   
33.153   Probation
   
33.154   Suspension
   
33.155   Dismissal
   
33.156   Code of conduct
   
33.157   Political activities
Miscellaneous
   
33.170   Grievance procedure
   
33.171   Layoffs
   
33.172   Resignation
 
Appendix A:   Drug Free Workplace Policy
Appendix B:   Employee Notification of Personnel Code and Drug Free Workplace
Policy and Disclaimer of Employment
Appendix C:   Employee Code: Discipline Form
Appendix D:   Americans with Disabilities Act Grievance Procedure
Appendix E:   Request for family or medical leave
Appendix F:   Request for special leave
GENERALLY
§ 33.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Employee Code is to implement and maintain a
uniform system of employment within all departments of the village and shall
hereinafter be referred to as the "code." The code is designed to provide
employees and management with information pertaining to the employment policies
and procedures applicable to all village employees.
   (B)   All policies and procedures contained in this code shall go into
effect immediately upon passage by the Village Board and approved by the Mayor.
   (C)   All employees will be required to adhere to the policies and
procedures as they are outlined in this code.
   (D)   Upon adoption by the Village Board, this code shall be the
nonexclusive policy of all departments of the village concerning terms and/or
conditions of employment.
   (E)   In order to implement and carry out the express provisions and the
intent of this code, all Superintendents may pronounce policies consistent with
this code. A copy of any such policy shall be distributed to the Mayor and the
Village Board.
   (F)   Nothing in this code shall in any way affect the village's and
Superintendent's right to develop and disseminate information concerning the
operations of any department and employee's job functions, duties and job
position description.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words shall have the following meanings when used in this
code.
   DEPARTMENT. As used in this chapter, the governmental unit for whom the
employee is directly working for and rendering services.
   ELECTED OFFICIAL. Includes village elected public office holders such as
Mayor and Village Board.
   EMPLOYEE. As used in this chapter, a person working as a volunteer or for
remuneration for services rendered to the village. For purposes of this
chapter, an elected official is not an employee whose personal rights are
affected by the chapter.
   EMPLOYER. As used in this chapter, the village.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Includes: spouse, child, stepchild, parent, stepparent,
sibling, stepsiblings, grandparent, spouse's grandparent, grandchild, step
grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in- law, son-in-law, daughter-in law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, and a household member over whom the employee
has charge and is living with the employee.
   IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR. As used in this chapter, the individual to whom the
employee shall immediately report and be responsible for his or her work. An
immediate supervisor may be the Mayor or the Superintendent.
   SUPERINTENDENT. As mentioned in this chapter, the one individual ultimately
responsible for all operations of the department.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.003 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   No person shall be discriminated against in any aspect of employment
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap or
disability, ancestry, marital status, political affiliation, or any other
prohibited form of discrimination under federal or state law or government
contract or grant regulations.
   (B)   All employees shall adhere to this nondiscriminatory policy. Any and
all affirmative action plans in effect shall also apply with regard to equal
opportunity employment.
   (C)   Sexual harassment in the workplace is considered by the village to be
a form of sex discrimination, and no employee shall engage in any form of
sexual harassment in the workplace.
   (D)   Any employee, person or individual who feels in any way wronged,
harassed, interfered with, or discriminated against should feel free to contact
the Village Board. This Village Board will investigate the matter. No employee
shall be retaliated against by co-employees or supervisors for making contact
with the Village Board or otherwise complaining of any form of discrimination.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
HIRING POLICY
§ 33.010 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Employment is based on each applicant's qualifications as compared
with the requirements of the available position. Consideration is given to
ability, experience, education, training and character.
   (B)   No consideration shall be given to the applicant's political party
affiliation or support in regard to any decisions on hiring, promotion,
transfer, or recall.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.011 RESIDENCY.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   Employment is based on each applicant's qualifications as compared
with the requirements of the available position. Consideration is given to
ability, experience, education, training and character.
      (2)   No consideration shall be given to the applicant's political party
affiliation or support in regard to any decisions on hiring, promotion,
transfer, or recall.
   (B)   Full-time employees. All full-time village employees shall reside
within ten miles of the corporate limits of the village. This requirement shall
be applicable to all new hirings by the village and to all existing full-time
employees, provided that said requirement shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any employees who do not reside within ten miles of the corporate
limits of the village, at the time of the passage of this chapter.
      (2)   Any employee of the Moweaqua Golf Course.
      (3)   The Chief of Police, who must reside within 30 miles of the
corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   No department may have immediate family members employed at the same
time.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.012 APPLICATION FORMS.
   Applications for positions with the department shall be filed on forms
furnished by the Village Clerk. All successful applicants shall produce an
original social security card. The Superintendent may require certificates of
competency, licenses, medical examinations, post-offer medical examination,
drug and alcohol tests, background investigations, references, police checks,
motor vehicle reports/driving history, oral interviews, or other evidence of
special qualifications. The Superintendent may reject application of persons
who are found to lack any of the requirements established for the position. The
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board shall appoint all
employees. In considering applications of various individuals, length of
service shall be used as a factor in the selection of applicants, but will not
be considered the sole or even the predominant factor. No employee shall be
hired and placed on the payroll and receive fringe benefits until all
employment related forms, including but not limited to the employment
application form, are filled out and forwarded to the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.013 PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   Employees are encouraged to apply for job openings in higher
classifications and will be considered for promotion for job openings upon
written application. All full-time employees may be considered for promotions.
Probationary employees may apply, but do not have to be considered, depending
upon the discretion of the Superintendent.
   (B)   When an employee is promoted, the employee will be placed on
probation. At the end of the probationary period, the employee's performance
will be formally evaluated and one of the following actions shall be taken by
the village or Superintendent based upon employee's performance and conduct:
      (1)   The employee may assume the new position having successfully
completed the probationary period.
      (2)   The probationary period may be extended.
      (3)   The employee may be demoted to a position commensurate with the
employee's ability if the lower position is available.
      (4)   The employee may be terminated due to substandard performance and/
or conduct as determined by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.014 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   A minimum of six months of employment will be designated as a
probationary period for all employees. To assure that new employees are aware
of the expectations and functions of their job and to answer any questions the
probationary employee may have, a formal evaluation will be made at the end of
the probationary period by the employee's supervisor. The probationary period
is tolled during periods of approved leaves of absence.
   (B)   The probationary period also applies to employees who are rehired
after previously terminating their employment with the village. All employees
rehired by the village within three years of their termination date may be
eligible for benefits they earned during previous employment with the village.
Eligibility for benefits lies within the discretion of the Mayor and Village
Board.
   (C)   Probationary employees who are dismissed do not have redress through
the grievance procedure. In the event that employment is terminated during the
probationary period, any accrued benefits, leave time, etc., with the exception
of vacation, will be lost.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
§ 33.020 EMPLOYMENT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Employees are classified according to the following guidelines:
   (A)   Full-time. Those employees scheduled to work a minimum of 32 hours per
work week for administrative staff and 40 hours per work week for all other
employees on a continuous basis on a regular weekly schedule over 1,000 hours
per year. All full-time employees are eligible for overtime pay and
compensatory time for work in excess of 40 hours in a work week.
   (B)   Part-time. Those employees scheduled to work less than 1,000 hours per
year. Part-time employees are eligible for overtime pay.
   (C)   Permanent part-time. Those employees scheduled to work 1,000 hours per
year or more on a continuous basis on a regular weekly schedule.
   (D)   Special assignment, professionals. Professionals and those employees
hired for a specific project for a limited period and may include those hired
to fill in summer vacations, illness and the like. Such employees are hired
with the understanding that their employment is to terminate upon completion of
the project or at the end of the period. Special assignment may be either full-
time or part-time as determined by the requirements of the job. Professional
employees are not entitled to overtime and compensatory time, but are entitled
to other benefits.
   (E)   Special assignment, nonprofessional. Nonprofessional employees are
like the special assignment, professional employees except that nonprofessional
are entitled to overtime and compensatory time, but not to benefits.
   (F)   Volunteers. Those individuals who accept on an unpaid basis various
work assignments for any department. These individuals receive no wages or
benefits.
   (G)   Salaried exempt. Salaried exempt employees are exempt from overtime.
Salaried exempt employees are paid at a fixed salary rate with the expectation
that the work load will dictate the number of hours worked.
   (H)   Police officers. Police officers shifts vary from other employees of
the village. Police officers will work 12 hour shifts. The work schedule cycle
shall consist of:
      (1)   Two consecutive workdays, followed by two consecutive days off;
three consecutive workdays, followed by two consecutive days off; and two
consecutive workdays, followed by three consecutive days off.
      (2)   The schedule shall then repeat itself. MON/TUE/WED/THU/FRI/SAT/SUN/
MON/TUE/WED/THU/FRI/SAT/SUN/ON/ON/OFF/OFF/ON/ON/ON/OFF/OFF/ON/ON/OFF/ OFF/OFF.
      (3)   The hours worked every two weeks will total 84 hours. This will
equal the traditional 80 hours worked in two weeks and four hours overtime per
pay period. The extra hours can be taken as paid overtime or taken as comp
time.
      (4)   If officers are held over their regular shifts or come into work on
their days off the hours worked will be overtime and can be taken as paid
overtime or taken as comp time.
      (5)   The traditional shift will be 1200-0000 hours. Duty hours can be
adjusted at the discretion of the Chief of Police.
      (6)   Officers may accrue up to 120 hours of comp time. If an officer has
accrued the maximum allowable amount of 120 hours of comp time, then any
overtime worked must be taken as paid overtime.
      (7)   Accrued comp time may be carried over from year to year and cannot
be lost merely due to lapse of time. Any unused accrued comp time shall be paid
out at the then applicable overtime rate following an officer's separation from
employment on or before the officer's next regularly scheduled payday.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.021 PAYCHECKS.
   Employees shall receive their paycheck on a biweekly basis. Employees shall
work at least two weeks before being paid, creating a two week lag, which will
be paid upon termination of employment. The paycheck actually issued will be
for the preceding pay period.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.022 COMPENSATION.
   The basic rate shall be set forth by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.023 OVERTIME.
   Overtime at one and one-half times the regular rate of pay is available to
employees working in excess of a 40-hour work period. In the event an employee
is required to work outside of normal working hours, the employee shall be
deemed to have worked for a minimum of two hours.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.024 SALARY INCREASES.
   Employees are eligible for a salary increase after the completion of the
probationary period.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
HOURS OF WORK
§ 33.030 WORK WEEK.
   (A)   The following shall be the parameters for the work week: The Mayor or
the Superintendent shall determine the work week for the departments. Each
Superintendent shall allow for continuous operation of the department.
   (B)   No work shall be performed at home, without the prior approval of the
Mayor or the Superintendent.
   (C)   Prior approval of immediate supervisors is necessary for any employee
to work early or stay late to do work related activity. All village department
personnel are on 24-hour call to report to work. No person employed by the
Village Street Department shall work for more than 16 hours in a 24-hour
period.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.031 LUNCH.
   The following shall apply for lunches:
   (A)   Each Superintendent shall establish the lunch schedule for his or her
own department.
   (B)   Travel time to and from any eating place is included in the lunch
period. The lunch break cannot be used for compensatory time or as a substitute
for tardiness. Lunch periods may not be taken at the end of the day or in
conjunction with a rest period unless the employee has obtained written
approval from his or her immediate supervisor.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.032 TIME AND ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   Each Superintendent shall maintain accurate daily attendance records.
An employee shall be at their places of work in accordance with the attendance
rules. Tardiness or other abuse of regular attendance will not be tolerated.
The attendance records will indicate information in order to properly pay
employees for actual work performed. An employee shall have the right to review
his or her attendance record on file in the department.
   (B)   No one will be permitted to sign in or out for another employee and
shall clock in and out for lunch.
   (C)   An employee shall, whenever possible, provide advance notice of
absence from work.
   (D)   When village offices and buildings are open, but inclement weather
prevents employees from reaching the buildings, employees may account for such
absences by using accrued time, such as vacation and compensatory time earned,
or the employee may elect to be docked for time off. Sick leave may not be used
to cover absence due to inclement weather.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.033 HOLIDAY PAY.
   (A)   All full-time and salaried exempt employees shall have time off with
full salary payment on the day designated as a holiday by the Village Board.
   (B)   If a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled day off, the
employee shall be entitled to an additional day off. Employees cannot use sick
leave in lieu of scheduled holidays.
   (C)   All full-time employees covered by this chapter, who are required to
work on an official holiday, shall receive a rate of two times the regular rate
of pay for the hours worked on such holiday plus the holiday pay. The
Superintendent or Chief of Police shall approve the use of time with pay.
   (D)   The term LAST SCHEDULE WORK DAY means the employee's full day of work.
   (E)   To be eligible for holiday pay, the employee must work both the day
before and the day after the holiday. The exception allows for absences for
good cause that are approved by the Superintendent or Mayor. Samples of this
exception include the holiday, the Superintendent or Mayor approving for good
cause hospitalization the day before or the day after the holiday, and a
Superintendent/Mayor approving for good cause an employee calling in sick the
day before or the day after a holiday, and placing the call at the last minute.
In each of these examples, the Superintendent or Mayor shall exercise judgment
as to whether the sickness or hospitalization is for “good cause.”
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
LEAVES
§ 33.040 LEAVE.
   For all types of leaves, the Village Board and/or the Superintendent may
require employees to use vacation, sick leave, comp time or any other type of
accumulated or accrued benefits before the employee is placed on leave without
pay status.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.041 HOLIDAYS.
   The Village Clerk, Water Clerk, Street Superintendent, Water and Sewer
Superintendent, Deputy Village Clerk, Chief of Police, full-time patrol
officers, full-time treasurer, and all full-time employees shall be entitled to
the following paid holidays each year:
   (A)   New Year's Day.
   (B)   Martin Luther King's Birthday.
   (C)   Presidents' Day.
   (D)   Good Friday.
   (E)   Memorial Day.
   (F)   Independence Day (July Fourth).
   (G)   Labor Day.
   (H)   Veteran's Day.
   (I)   Thanksgiving Day plus following day.
   (J)   Christmas Eve at the Mayor's discretion.
   (K)   Christmas Day.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.042 VACATION.
   Permanent employees shall accrue vacation as follows:
   (A)   Upon the completion of 90 days of employment, all permanent full-time
employees shall be entitled to one week paid vacation at their weekly salary
rate computed as of the date such vacation is taken.
   (B)   Any such employee who has completed one to six calendar years of
employment shall be entitled to two weeks paid vacation at their weekly salary
rate computed as of the date such vacation is taken.
   (C)   Any such employee having completed seven calendar years of employment
shall receive three weeks of paid vacation at their weekly salary rate computed
as of the date such vacation is taken.
   (D)   Any such employee having completed 14 calendar years of employment
shall receive four weeks of vacation at their weekly salary rate computed as of
the previous anniversary date such vacation is taken.
   (E)   Any such employee having completed 20 calendar years of employment
shall add a day per year up to 25 years.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.043 BEREAVEMENT PAY.
   Each employee will be allowed three days off with pay when a death occurs to
a member of their immediate family as defined in §
33.002.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.044 SICK LEAVE/PERSONAL DAYS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk, Water Clerk, Street Superintendent, Water and Sewer
Superintendent, Deputy Village Clerk, Chief of Police, full-time patrol
officers, full-time treasurer and all full-time employees shall be allowed ten
days of sick leave in each year without any reduction in their respective
salaries. After being off of work and taking three continuous sick days, the
employee shall not be able to return to work without a doctor's excuse.
Employees who work eight hours as a normal shift will be allowed eight hours of
sick leave per sick day. Employees who work 12 hours as a normal shift will be
allowed 12 hours of sick leave per sick day.
   (B)   In the event any of the foregoing officers or employees do not use the
allotted ten days of sick leave in a particular year, the number of sick days
that are not used may be accumulated and used in the following year. However,
sick leave of more than 30 days cannot be accumulated by any one of the
foregoing individuals. In any one year, if one is able to take more than ten
days of sick leave with pay on account of prior years' accumulation of sick
leave, and does take more than ten days of sick leave that particular year, in
order to be compensated for the sick days that are used above and beyond the
allotted ten days of sick leave for one year, the said individual must obtain a
verification of his or her sickness and inability to work in writing from a
qualified and licensed medical practitioner.
   (C)   Upon termination of employment of any village employee entitled to
sick leave herein, it shall be the said employee's option to be paid for one-
half of his or her accumulated sick leave or to apply all of said accumulated
sick leave toward retirement, provided that after ten years of uninterrupted
service as a village employee, the said employee shall have the option to be
paid for all of his or her accumulated sick leave.
   (D)   Non-temporary.
      (1)   Any non-temporary full-time employee shall be given ten paid sick
leave days per calendar year accumulative up to no more than 30 days paid at
their regular weekly rate computed as of the date of the occurrence.
      (2)   After any non-temporary full-time employee has accumulated 30 sick
leave days, that employee will be compensated at one-half their regular salary
for each day beyond the maximum accumulated sick leave days.
      (3)   Any non-temporary part-time employees shall be entitled to ten half
days of paid sick leave per calendar year accumulative to not more than 30 half
days paid at their regular weekly rate computed at their previous anniversary
date.
   (E)   Earned sick leave shall be posted annually.
   (F)   Personal days. Each full-time employee shall be entitled to three
personal days per year. If they are not used in that calendar year, they shall
terminate. Employees who work eight hours as a normal shift will be allowed up
to eight hours of personal leave day per personal day. Employees who work 12
hours as a normal shift will be allowed 12 hours of personal leave day per
personal day.
   (G)   Restrictions. Sick leave shall not be used for purposes of an extended
vacation, weekend or holiday. Sick leave cannot be used as a substitute for
vacation leave. Employees will be granted sick leave only after completing a
minimum of 25 work days of actual employment. Sick leave must be accrued before
it may be used. Otherwise, time off shall be charged to the employee's accrued
vacation leave time, or at the option of the Superintendent or Mayor, shall be
taken as leave without pay. Sick days are accrued during probation. Sick time
will be deducted for no less than one hour. No sick leave in excess of three
consecutive days shall be authorized unless approved by the Superintendent or
Mayor.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.045 ILLNESS OR INJURY AT WORK.
   (A)   Any employee who is ill or injured on the job shall immediately notify
the Superintendent who may require the employee to be transported to a hospital
for examination by a physician or surgeon.
   (B)   For employees on an eight hour work schedule, if an employee becomes
ill while at work after the first two hours of work, the employee shall lose
one-half day of accumulated sick time. For employees on a 12 hour work
schedule, if an employee becomes ill at work after the first three hours of
work, the employee shall lose one-half day of accumulated sick time.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.046 MATERNITY.
   Pregnancy shall be considered the same as any short-term disability, and
request for pregnancy leave shall be made through the disability leave clause.
Request for parental leave following child birth shall be made through the
leave of absence clause, §
33.047(D)(7), Family and Medical Leave Act.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.047 LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   No employee on leave of absence may earn vacation, or sick leave,
except when the leave was for the purpose of accepting a temporary work
assignment in another office.
   (B)   All types of leave of absence do not earn vacations or sick leave
while the employee is on leave of absence.
   (C)   While the employee is on leave of absence, the length of service still
continues to accumulate except for special leave situations under division (D)
(1), special leave, and for division (D)(7) Family and Medical Leave Act
situations. Length of service is specifically prohibited from accumulating on
special leave cases and on Family and Medical Leave Act situations. The
prohibition on length of service accumulation is not contained in any other
type of leave of absence situation. Therefore, the code should be construed to
allow accumulation of length of services while on leave of absence other than
“special leave” and the “Family and Medical Leave Act.”
   (D)   Employee shall be granted an excused leave of absence for the
following:
      (1)   Special leave. 
         (a)   All full-time and salary exempt employees who have completed one
full year of continuous service may request a special leave. Special leave will
only be granted for personal reasons, and must be approved by employee's
Superintendent. Special leave shall be granted without pay. The period for
special leave shall not exceed six months. An extension may be granted up to a
maximum of six months for a total of one year. In order to continue to receive
medical and insurance benefits during a special leave, the employee shall
contribute both the employee and the employer's share of IMRF and insurance
costs. Length of service or benefits shall not accrue or accumulate during a
special leave. A person either hired or promoted to fill the position vacated
by the person on leave shall be considered in that position temporarily and
shall relinquish it upon the employee's return.
         (b)   If a special leave is approved by the Village Board, coverage
under Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund may be maintained pursuant to IMRF
rules and regulations.
      (2)   Military. 
         (a)   Any full-time, salaried exempt, or part-time employee who is a
member of a reserve component of the Armed Services, the Illinois National
Guard or the Illinois Naval Militia, shall be allowed annual leave with pay for
15 days and the village shall pay the difference in salary and any additions or
extensions thereof without pay as may be necessary for the employees to fulfill
the military reserve obligation. Such leaves will be granted without loss of
length of service or other accrued benefits.
         (b)   In case of an emergency call up (or order to state active duty)
by the Governor, the leave shall be granted for the duration of said emergency
with pay and without loss of length of service or other accrued benefits.
         (c)   Military earnings during the military reserve obligation or for
the emergency call shall be submitted and assigned to the village, and the
village shall return it to the payroll fund from which the employee's payroll
check was drawn. If military pay exceeds the employee's earning for the period,
the Village Board shall return the difference to the employee.
         (d)   To be eligible for military reserve leave emergency call up pay,
the employee shall provide the village with a certificate from the commanding
officer of the employee's unit that the leave taken was for either such
purpose.
         (e)   Full-time employees entering into military service as a result
of voluntary enlistment, induction into the service by draft, or conscription
will be afforded all of the privileges provided by the 330 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
      (3)   Jury duty. An employee shall be excused from work for days in which
the employee serves on jury duty. The employee shall receive his or her regular
pay for jury service. The employee shall present proof of jury service and the
amount of pay received shall be turned over to the Village Treasurer. The
employee shall also turn over to the village any expense allowances paid by the
court, if the jury duty is located at the County Courthouse. If an employee is
given an early release from jury duty, the employee shall then report to his or
her regular work assignment.
      (4)   Witness. An employee shall be excused from work when lawfully
subpoenaed to serve as a witness. The employee must present written proof of
the summons to testify to qualify for an excused absence. Notice to employee's
supervisor should be made in advance of appearing in court. An employee's
excused absence from work shall be on an unpaid basis, unless the employee's
witness activity is work related and the witness activity is requested by the
village. The employee shall turn over to the village, any witness fee when the
employee's witness activity is work related.
      (5)   Village disability leave.
         (a)   To be eligible for village disability leave, the employee must
submit to the Village Board a medical opinion that the employee cannot work in
his or her normal job position, and a medical opinion that the employee may
possibly be able to return to work within the next six months. Employees are
not eligible for disability benefits until they have been employed at least one
year. Employees may be required to use their accrued sick or vacation time to
continue regular wages.
         (b)   Employees must submit a letter requesting disability leave to
their Superintendent within a reasonable amount of time before disability leave
is taken. Upon return to work, employees must submit a release statement from
their physician to the Superintendent. If the Superintendent has reason to
believe that the employee is unable to perform the normal duties or the
employee is able to perform duties and is still absent, they may seek and rely
upon the decision of an impartial physician. The Village Board will select a
physician, who is not a village employee, to act as an impartial physician.
      (6)   Educational leave. 
         (a)   The Village Board may grant an employee an educational leave of
absence for the purpose of engaging in a training course. No educational leave
may be granted unless in the judgment of the Village Board the training course
would benefit the village by improving the employee's qualifications to perform
the duties of the employee's position or by qualifying the employee for
advancement in rank or grade to another position in the village service.
Employee shall receive his or her regular pay during an education leave of
absence for training courses when so authorized by the Village Board.
         (b)   Employees may request an educational leave without pay to seek
further professional training in specialty fields. Such leave may be up to ten
months in duration and requires the approval of the Village Board. An employee
on education leave without pay does not accrue vacation or sick leave credit
for the period of leave. When ready to return to work, the employee will be
offered the first available full-time position at the same job level the
employee held prior to departing on educational leave without pay.
      (7)   Family and Medical Leave Act.
         (a)   An employee is eligible for a leave of absence through the
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993. In order to be eligible for leave, an
employee must have worked for the employer at least 12 months and must have
worked at least 1,250 hours over the previous 12 months prior to the leave.
Eligible female and male employees are allowed up to 12 weeks of leave per 12-
month period following the birth of a child, the placement of a child for
adoption or foster care, or the serious health condition of the employee or an
immediate family member (defined for purposes of this Family and Medical Leave
Act situation as including the employee's child, spouse or parent). The leave
for birth or placement must take place within 12 months of the birth or
placement of the child.
         (b)   The employee's leave shall be unpaid. The employee may, upon
approval of the Village Board, use accumulated sick leave and/or vacation
leave. During the leave, the village shall continue to provide coverage under
its group health plan. Following return upon leave, the employee shall be
returned to a position with equivalent pay, benefits and other terms and
conditions of employment.
         (c)   In order to utilize leave of absence pursuant to the Family
Medical Leave Act, the employee should give a 30-day notice.
         (d)   For leave based upon serious health conditions, the employer may
require certification from the employee's health care provider for leave.
Employer reserves the right to require a second medical opinion at the
employee's own expense.
      (8)   Expiration of leave.
         (a)   When an employee returns from a leave of six months or less, the
Superintendent shall return the employee to the same or similar position in the
same class in which the employee was incumbent prior to commencement of such
leave.
         (b)   An employee's same or similar position will not be protected for
reductions in force or where the position has been eliminated. Employees are
subject to termination if they are absent from work for more than six months.
No employee may be absent without permission of the supervisor to which
assigned. In the absence of extenuating circumstances, an employee who is
absent from work for any reason and fails to notify his or her supervisor
within two working days will be considered to have resigned.
         (c)   No employee on leave of absence may earn vacation, or sick
leave, except when the leave was for the purpose of accepting a temporary
working assignment in another office.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
MISCELLANEOUS BENEFITS
§ 33.060 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   The village will participate in contributions for all eligible employees to
the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund. The village shall follow all guidelines
of IMRF in order to protect the benefits of the employees.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.061 INSURANCE.
   Insurance will be provided on the following basis:
   (A)   Health insurance. The village will pay up to an average of $1,100 per
month to the insurance provider for each full-time employee and permanent part-
time employee for health insurance and up to an average of $600 per month for
dependent care for each such employee. Any premium increases over time will be
left to the employees to pay. All newly hired full-time employees and permanent
part-time employees will be offered insurance as of the date of hire. The
Village Clerk's Office must be notified of a divorce or legal separation of the
covered employee, and further must be notified when a child is no longer
eligible as a covered dependent of the employee.
   (B)   Legal defense and liability insurance. In any claim or action
instituted against an employee, or former employee, where such claim or action
arises out of any act or omission, made in good faith, occurring within the
scope of employment of the employee, or former employee, the village shall,
upon written request of the employee or former employee, appear and defend the
employee or former employee, against any such claim or action, including the
process of appeal. The Village Attorney shall appear for and defend the
employee. This section excludes disciplinary proceedings or criminal
proceedings.
   (C)   Other types of insurance. All classifications of employees will be
covered by the provisions of Social Security legislation, and salary deductions
will be made in accordance with the law. Employees are covered by the Workers'
Compensation Act, 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq. Any work-related injury must be
reported to the Superintendent. All employees are covered by unemployment
insurance. All costs shall be paid by the village.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.062 TRAINING.
   (A)   For meetings and seminars, employees may be granted leave with pay to
attend meetings, seminars and conventions of professional and technical
organizations, when such attendance would benefit the employee's ability to
perform the job, and is approved in advance by the Village Board.
   (B)   For any training programs conducted after regular working hours, such
training shall be voluntary unless arrangements for such training includes the
granting of overtime.
   (C)   All employees shall be reimbursed for mileage expenses incurred while
attending assigned schools outside the village. Upon receipt of a notice to
attend the training school, the employee will request the use of a departmental
vehicle to transport those attending to and from school. If a departmental
vehicle is not available, reimbursement shall be made for the employee's use of
their personal vehicle. When two or more persons attend the same school at the
same time the Superintendent may require that only one person will be eligible
to receive reimbursement for travel. The rate of reimbursement shall be
established by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.063 TRAVEL EXPENSE CONTROL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY. The Village of Moweaqua, Shelby and Christian
Counties, Illinois.
      PERSON. Any individual, employee, Board member, partnership, co-
partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency, or other legal entity, or
their legal representative, agent or assigns of the Village of Moweaqua, Shelby
and Christian Counties, Illinois.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly, or indirectly, incident to official
travel by employees and officers of a local public agency or by wards or
charges of a local public agency involving reimbursement to travelers or direct
payment to private agencies providing transportation or related services.
   (B)   Limitations of expenses. Travel, meals, and lodging expenses are
limited to the following acts or events:
      (1)   Conferences of the Illinois Municipal League;
      (2)   Purchase of property, real or personal, to be used and owned by the
local public agency;
      (3)   Training of local public agency employees, Board members, and
agents of the local public agency;
      (4)   Any other act or event approved, prior to the act or event, by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees of the local public agency.
   (C)   Maximum allowable reimbursement. The Village President may approve all
travel reimbursements specifically authorized by this section, provided that
all documents required of division (D) are submitted. The maximum allowable
reimbursement for travel, meal, and lodging expenses shall be limited to $200
per day per person, not to exceed two consecutive days without the prior
approval of the Board of Trustees by a majority vote.
   (D)   Required documents. Before any expense for travel, meals, or lodging
may be approved under divisions (B) and (C) of this section, the following
minimum documentation must first be submitted, in writing, to the Board of
Trustees or the Village President, whichever shall be applicable:
      (1)   An estimate or actual cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of cost of travel, meals, or lodging if the
expenses have already been incurred;
      (2)   The name of the individual or person who received or is requesting
the travel, meal, or lodging expense;
      (3)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
      (4)   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   (E)   Court costs. The village is entitled to recover court costs from any
non-prevailing party for any and all actions brought to enforce any fine or
penalty or contesting any fine or penalty brought pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.064 DEATH BENEFITS.
   (A)   Each employee shall fill out a designation of beneficiary form. Upon
the death of an employee, the designated beneficiary shall be entitled to
receive from the appropriation for personal services theretofore available for
payment of the employee's compensation, such sums for any accrued vacation
period to which the employee was entitled to at the time of death. Such payment
shall be computed by multiplying the employee's daily rate of pay by the number
of days of accrued vacation at the time of death.
   (B)   Upon the death of an employee, the estate shall receive any unpaid
compensation, accrued overtime, or other benefits the employee would have been
allowed had the employee survived.
   (C)   Family members of deceased employees should contact the Village
Clerk's Office for explanation of any further benefits the family members or
the estate of the deceased employee may be entitled to.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.065 TRAVEL.
   (A)   Staff vehicles are to be used only for activities directly related to
the conduct of business. Under no circumstances are the vehicles to be used for
personal activities. Reimbursement is provided for the use of employee's
private vehicles for official business at the rate designated by the State of
Illinois for actual mileage traveled. Private vehicles will only be used when
department vehicles are not available and prior approval is given by the Mayor.
Use of staff vehicles are restricted to employees who have a valid drivers'
license with current liability insurance. Employees are not permitted to use
village vehicles without the knowledge of their supervisor or Superintendent.
All employees using staff or private vehicles must record mileage on the
expense log along with the destination and purpose of the trip. The log is to
be returned with the vehicle's keys. Expense claims for private vehicle usage
will be honored only if the listed trip is initialed by the immediate
supervisor. Any malfunctions or damages must be reported to the immediate
supervisor. Travel in any vehicle will always be by the most direct route
unless otherwise approved by the Mayor or Superintendent.
   (B)   If the most economical means of travel available is by some type of
transportation other than an automobile, the mode selected must be approved by
the Mayor or the Superintendent before departure. Travel by either airplane or
train will be by coach class.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.066 REIMBURSEMENT OF OTHER EXPENSES.
   An employee shall be allowed reimbursement for the actual cost of meals in
accordance with these rules but not to exceed the rates indicated in the
reimbursement schedule. It is not necessary to submit receipts when receiving
per diem. It is necessary to submit receipts when receiving reimbursement for
individual meals.
   (A)   For breakfast, an employee only will receive reimbursement if the
employee is on travel status and leaves headquarters or residence at or before
7:00 a.m.
   (B)   For lunch, travel within 25 miles of the village is not reimbursed.
   (C)   For dinner, an employee must be on travel status and arrive back at
the headquarters or residence at or after 8:00 p.m. For employees commencing
travel after the close of business but before 6:00 p.m., reimbursement for
dinner is allowed.
   (D)   Advance per diem checks must be requested a minimum of three days in
advance. A per diem allowance is available only when overnight lodging is
obtained or when the travel assignment is 18 hours or more. A per diem
allowance provided in the reimbursement schedule represents the maximum daily
amount allowable and is given in lieu of a meal allowance. Receipts must be
submitted to support allowances other than meals when on per diem.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 33.080 ACCIDENTS/INJURIES.
   Anytime an employee is involved in an automobile accident with a village
automobile or in a personal automobile while on village business, the employee
shall notify his or her Superintendent immediately with all pertinent
information including whether personal injury is involved and whether any
traffic citations were issued. All Superintendents shall within 24 hours notify
the Village Attorney if any traffic citations were issued to a village employee
and shall provide the Village Attorney with a copy of the citations. An
employee is obligated to cooperate with the village and any of the village's
legal representatives regarding the accident and any citations that may have
been issued.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.081 APPEARANCE. 
   (A)   Neatness and good taste in dress, as well as care toward personal
hygiene, are expected of all employees. For safety and hygienic purposes,
employees may be required to comply with any appropriate dress code that is set
forth by the Superintendent or Village Board during the performance of their
duties.
   (B)   Employees may be requested to change inappropriate dress, and work
lost while doing so will not be compensated by the department. Employees may be
evaluated on their dress and appearance. The Superintendent is the only
individual of each department who may make exceptions to the dress code.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.082 USE OF DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   (A)   All department property and equipment entrusted to any employee will
be used in accordance with the property's prescribed function. All damage
through recklessness, gross negligence, intentional act, deliberate misuse, or
theft shall be replaced and paid for by the employee committing the violation.
Such replacement of property by the employee shall not be considered the
exclusive remedy against the employee and the employee may still be subject to
discipline. All department property, personal lockers, and personal offices are
subject to search and seizure. All department property shall be inspected by
the employee's immediate supervisor prior to issuance of the property.
   (B)   No department property shall be used for private or unauthorized
purposes. All employees are required to return all department property or
equipment in their possession upon separation, promotion, and/or transfer.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.083 TELEPHONE USAGE.
   (A)   Good telephone habits are an indication that the department is
interested in serving the public. At all times, answer promptly and
courteously. Identify yourself by name and section, be friendly and helpful.
Write time and date of any message from the caller, transfer calls tactfully,
give accurate information, do not keep the caller waiting and hang up
carefully.
   (B)   Employees shall keep incoming and outgoing personal calls to a
minimum.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.084 CORRESPONDENCE AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   No employee shall use their official position, engage in official
transactions or business to harass any individual or to secure a benefit for
himself or herself or other individuals. Courtesy should be given in all
communications and correspondence, and all employees should refrain from
unnecessarily criticizing any individuals or agencies concerning official
transactions or business.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.085 SMOKING.
   Smoking by village employees shall only be allowed in designated areas,
including smokeless tobacco.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.086 PHOTO IDS.
   The Village Board may issue a photo ID card for employees. All employees who
are issued a shield badge and/or photo ID are required to be in possession of
the badge and/or photo ID on and off duty. Employees shall not use their shield
or identification card for personal business or personal gain. If a shield or
identification card is lost or stolen, it must be reported in writing to the
Superintendent without delay.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.087 SPEECH AND DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Employees are encouraged to appear before civic organizations,
fraternal organizations or any other group in an official capacity. Employees
shall notify the Superintendent prior to accepting such speaking engagements.
   (B)   Employees are cautioned against making statements or giving
impressions regarding official agency policy or position without prior
expressed authority being granted. Normally, the Village Board has the sole
right to adopt and interpret the policies of the organization. If in doubt, it
is always preferable to consult the Superintendent before making any statements
that might possibly be misinterpreted or misconstrued by the general public or
press.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall make all news releases concerning the
department.
   (D)   The village shall comply with the Illinois Freedom of Information Act,
and employees are allowed to disseminate information pursuant to the Act.
However, employees are not allowed to disclose any information that is exempted
by Illinois Freedom of Information Act or prevented from disclosure by any
other state statutes.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.088 RELATIONS WITH CREDITORS.
   The village shall charge employees any authorized costs when making wage
deduction pursuant to court order or state or federal statutes.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.089 POSSESSION OF FIREARMS.
   Unless authorized by the Chief of Police, and unless authorized by the
appropriate Superintendent, no employee of any department has legal authority
to carry weapons while in the performance of their official duties.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.090 ETHICS.
   (A)   Employees shall not recommend or promote the sale of any specific
brand name product or equipment.
   (B)   Many employees in the course of their work have access to medical
information about patients, clients, employees, or other individuals. This may
be medical, legal or job related information. Such information is not to be
repeated or discussed outside the department or with other personnel unless
such information is a necessary part of the employee's assigned duty.
   (C)   Employees shall inform the Superintendent or Mayor of any possible
conflict of interest situations they may have.
   (D)   Employees are prohibited from accepting gifts, gratuities, or any item
of value for work performed on behalf of the department or village pursuant to
state law.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.091 OTHER EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employees are prohibited from having conflicting employment while
having a full-time position. An employee may not be paid by another employer
for the same 40-hour period employee is being paid by the department. If a
full-time employee performs outside services or employment, such services or
employment shall be reported to the Superintendent for prior approval, and
advance notification shall be given by the employee to the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Fees earned by an employee for serving as an instructor for a class
during other than normal working hours which is not sponsored by the village in
another village agency, shall be dealt with as follows:
      (1)   No overtime shall be earned and the fee retained; or
      (2)   Overtime shall be earned and the fee surrendered to the Village
Clerk and recorded as miscellaneous income.
   (C)   Employees who are injured while engaging in other employment shall
notify the Superintendent and the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.092 PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   Each applicant for employment may be required to successfully complete
a post-offer physical examination by a doctor of the employer's choice,
including a drug screen upon the request of the village. At any time, employees
may be required to submit to a physical examination. As a condition of their
employment, the employees of the department shall authorize the release of
medical testing information including drug screens to the village for
departmental use only.
   (B)   Each employee authorized to carry and use a gun while at work for the
village, and all employees engaging in heavy manual labor as their principal
form of job activity for the village may be required to submit to an annual
physical exam and/or drug screens by a doctor of the employer's choice.
   (C)   Drug screens can be conducted on a random basis for any security
personnel employed by the village, except those under police personnel
contract, for any employee authorized to carry and use a gun while performing
work related activities for the village and for any employee that is required
to hold other than a Class A driver's license for work related purposes. For
all other employees, drug screens shall be conducted upon reasonable suspicion.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, under no circumstances shall a positive
drug screen for cannabis (a/k/a marijuana) be used as the basis for a decision
by the village not to hire or for any disciplinary or adverse employment action
when such positive screen was the result of a post-offer/pre- employment
physical examination or was the result of an annual or random physical
examination of an employee where there has been no good faith belief that the
employee was under the influence of or impaired by cannabis while at the
workplace, while performing the employee's duties, while operating village
equipment (including vehicles) or while on call.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.093 REIMBURSEMENT OF COST OF TRAINING.
   If an employee leaves the department's employment before the completion of
three years from the initial date of employment, that employee will be liable
for all costs incurred in the employee's selection, background investigation,
equipment issue and training, prorated over a three-year period. Incurred
training costs will be deducted from any remaining paychecks.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.094 PRESCRIPTION DRUG USE.
   Any employee who is taking prescription or over-the-counter drugs or
medication which may impact on abilities to perform work shall report the use
of the drugs or medications to the irmnediate supervisor, along with the name
and address of any medical doctors prescribing the medication.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.095 DRUG FREE WORKPLACE.
   All employees, as a condition of employment, will comply with the Village's
Drug Free Workplace Policy, attached to this chapter as
Appendix A.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES
§ 33.110 PERSONNEL FILE.
   Employees are allowed to look at their own personnel files during normal
business hours. Persons wishing to view their own file shall file a written
request with the Superintendent or Village Clerk. A copy of the request shall
be placed in the employee's personnel file. Nothing should be placed in an
employee's personnel file nor shall anything be removed from the file without
the consent of the Mayor and Superintendent. Records of prior grievances and
discipline action shall be maintained in the employee's personnel file. The
final decision to remove items lies within the discretion of the Mayor and the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.111 REFERENCES.
   Employees or former employees have the right to obtain references or
recommendations. Such references shall provide the applicable date of hire and
the last date employed, and a general description of the applicable job duties.
Additional comments concerning the employee or former employee's job
performance dependability lies within the sound discretion of the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.112 SAFETY.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall implement any safety procedures adopted by
the village, and employees shall comply with any of the safety procedures.
   (B)   All department employees are directed to report any hazardous
conditions to their supervisor immediately.
   (C)   Due to the open-office design of many department buildings, it is
impossible to provide security for personal belongings left unattended. Staff
members are advised to keep their wallet, purses, etc. in their possession at
all times. The department cannot be responsible for losses due to theft.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.113 ALCOHOL AND DRUG PROBLEMS.
   (A)   The demands of the modern world are being felt by everyone. Our daily
lives are more complicated and more hectic than ever before. The majority of
families have two breadwinners. Children often have jobs of their own. In
addition, everyone is involved in outside activities of all types. The modern
world can be a two-edged sword: rewarding and enriching on one side and
extremely sharp and stressful on the other.
   (B)   Unfortunately, occasionally the stress of our world sometimes leads to
abuse of alcohol and/or drugs. The village wants to assure its employees that,
if there comes a time when you are experiencing or worried about an alcohol
and/or drug problem, every reasonable effort will be made to help you while
working for a permanent solution to the problem.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYERS
§ 33.120 VILLAGE'S RIGHTS.
   (A)   The employee recognizes that the village possesses the exclusive right
to operate and direct the employees of the village in all aspects, including,
but not limited to, all rights and authority granted by law.
   (B)   The employee further recognizes that this chapter is not a binding
contract between the village and the employee. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed as creating a employment agreement between the
village and its employees from time to time.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.121 NEW REGULATIONS.
   The village has the right to unilaterally create new employment policies and
regulations not mentioned in this chapter, and to change provisions of this
chapter without prior notice, approval or consent of the employees of the
village.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.122 MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The employer has the ultimate responsibility for proper management
including but not limited to responsibilities and the right for the following:
      (1)   To maintain executive management and administrative control of the
department and its property, facilities and staff.
      (2)   To hire all employees and to determine their qualifications and the
conditions for their continued employment or their dismissal or demotion.
      (3)   To direct, supervise, promote, suspend, discipline, terminate,
assign and schedule employees.
      (4)   To relieve employees from duties because of a lack of work or
funds, or under conditions where continued work would be inefficient or
nonproductive or under conditions as may be deemed necessary or advisable by
the department.
      (5)   To determine services to be rendered, operations to be performed,
utilization of technology and budgetary matters.
      (6)   To determine the methods, processes, means, job classifications and
personnel by which the operations of the department are to be conducted.
   (B)   It is recognized that the employer normally exercises most of the
powers, rights, authorities, duties and responsibilities through and with the
cooperation of the administrative staff.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.123 LENGTH OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Length of service is defined as the length of continuous service of an
employee since the employee's last date of hire with the village within the
employee's department. In the event an employee is transferred from or to
another department of the village, the employee's total continuous employment
with the village will be used as the basis for vacation and sick leave only.
   (B)   An employee's continuous service record shall be broken by voluntary
resignation or discharge. If such continuous service is broken due to
curtailment of operation, said employee shall be considered on layoff.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.124 EXEMPTIONS.
   All employees that are governed by a collective bargaining agreement between
the employer and a union are exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 33.130 PURPOSE OF POLICY.
   The purpose of this policy is to more clearly define sexual harassment, and
more clearly state the policy of the village regarding such behavior. Sexual
harassment is a violation of basic human rights fully recognized by the State
of Illinois.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.131 STATEMENT.
   It is the responsibility of each individual employee to refrain from sexual
harassment, and it is the right of each individual employee to work in an
environment free from sexual harassment. The village will not tolerate sexual
harassment in any form. Nor will it tolerate false or malicious accusations of
sexual harassment. The village will remain uncompromised in providing and
preserving a professional atmosphere free from sexual harassment of any kind.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.132 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act, sexual harassment is
defined as:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual's employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individuals; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   The courts have determined that sexual harassment is a form of
discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended
in 1991.
   (C)   Once such example is a case where a qualified individual is denied
employment opportunities and benefits that are, instead, awarded to an
individual who submits (voluntarily or under coercion) to sexual advances or
sexual favors. Another example is where an individual must submit to unwelcome
sexual conduct in order to receive an employment opportunity.
   (D)   Other conduct commonly considered to be sexual harassment includes:
      (1)   Verbal. Sexual innuendoes, suggestive comments, insults, humor and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside their presence, of a sexual nature.
      (2)   Non-verbal. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcall," "smacking" or
"kissing" noises.
      (3)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature.
      (4)   Physical. Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, coerced sexual intercourse, or actual assault.
   (E)   Sexual harassment most frequently involves a man harassing a woman.
However, it can also involve a woman harassing a man or harassment between
members of the same gender.
   (F)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends to some extent on individual perception and interpretation.
The trend in the courts is to assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable woman" or a "reasonable man," depending on the
gender of the alleged victim.
   (G)   An example of the most subtle form of sexual harassment is the use of
endearments. The use of terms such as "honey," "darling," and "sweetheart," is
objectionable to many women who believe that these undermine their authority
and their ability to deal with men on an equal and professional level.
   (H)   (1)   Another example is the use of a compliment that could
potentially be interpreted as sexual in nature. Below are three statements that
might be made about the appearance of a woman in the workplace.
         (a)   "That's an attractive dress you have on."
         (b)   "That's an attractive dress, it really looks good on you."
         (c)   "That's an attractive, dress. You really fill it out well."
      (2)   The first statement appears to be simply a compliment. The last is
the most likely to be perceived as sexual harassment, depending on the
individual perceptions and values. To avoid the possibility of offending an
employee, it is best to follow a course of conduct above reproach, or to err on
the side of caution.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.133 RESPONSIBILITY OF INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Each individual employee has the responsibility to refrain from sexual
harassment in the workplace.
   (B)   An individual employee who sexually harasses a fellow worker is, of
course, liable for his or her individual conduct.
   (C)   The harassing employee will be subject to disciplinary action up to
and including discharge in accordance with the authority's policy or a
bargaining agreement, as appropriate.
   (D)   An employee who either observes or believes herself/himself to be the
object of sexual harassment is responsible for reporting the incident(s) to
his/her supervisor or the EEO Officer.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.134 RESPONSIBILITY OF SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Each supervisor is responsible for maintaining the workplace free of
sexual harassment. This is accomplished by promoting a professional environment
and by dealing with sexual harassment as you would deal with other forms of
employee misconduct.
   (B)   The courts have found that the organization as well as supervisors can
be held liable for damages related to sexual harassment by a manner,
supervisor, employee, or third party (an individual who is not an employee but
does business with an organization, such as a contractor, customer, sales
representative, or repair person).
   (C)   Liability is either based on an organization's responsibility to
maintain a certain level of order and discipline, or on the supervisor acting
as an agent of the organization. As such, supervisors must act quickly and
responsibly not only to minimize their own liability but also that of the
agency.
   (D)   Specifically, a supervisor must address an observed incident of sexual
harassment or a complaint, with seriousness, take prompt action to investigate
it, report it and end it, implement appropriate disciplinary action, and
observe strict confidentiality. This also applies to cases where an employee
tells the supervisor about behavior considered sexual harassment but does not
want to make a formal complaint. The agency's Equal Employment Opportunity
(EEO) Officer will consult with supervisors on the proper procedures to follow.
   (E)   Supervisors must report any incidents or complaints of sexual
harassment to the authority's EEO Officer on the date of the alleged
occurrence, or the very next business day.
   (F)   In addition, supervisors must ensure that no retaliation will result
against an employee making a sexual harassment complaint.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.135 PROCEDURES FOR FILING A COMPLAINT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes or believes herself/himself to be the
object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as directly and
firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to both the
supervisor and offending employee. It is not necessary for sexual harassment to
be directed at the person making the complaint.
   (B)   The following steps may also be taken: document or record each
incident (what was said or done, the date, the time, and the place).
Documentation can be strengthened by written records such as letters, notes,
memos, and telephone messages.
   (C)   No one making a complaint will be retaliated against even if the
complaint made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness
will be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   The process for making a complaint sexual harassment falls into
several stages.
      (1)   Direct communication. If there is sexually harassing behavior in
the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly express her/
his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the offending
behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent messages are
needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
Superintendent or the Mayor. If the harasser is the Superintendent, the problem
should be reported to the Mayor or the Village Board.
      (3)   Formal written complaint. An employee may also report incidents of
sexual harassment directly to the Mayor. The Mayor will counsel the reporting
employee and be available to assist with filing a formal complaint. The Mayor
will fully investigate the complaint, and advise the complainant and the
alleged harasser of the results of the investigation.
      (4)   Resolution outside village. It is hoped that most sexual harassment
complaints and incidents can be resolved within the village. However, an
employee has the right to contact the Illinois Department of Human Rights
(IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) about filing a
formal complaint. An IDHR complaint shall be filed within 180 days of the
alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the
EEOC shall be filed within 300 days.
   (E)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for promotion, after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file
a retaliation charge, also due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of the
alleged retaliation.
   (F)   An employee who has been physically harassed or threatened while on
the job may also have grounds for criminal charges of assault and battery.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.136 TRAINING.
   The Mayor is responsible for ensuring that Superintendents and staff are
trained and made aware of the full range of practices that might constitute
sexual harassment.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.137 FALSE AND FRIVOLOUS.
   False and frivolous charges refer to cases where the accuser is using a
sexual harassment complaint to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment. It does not refer to charges made in good faith which cannot be
proven. Given the seriousness for the accused, a false and frivolous charge is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
DISCIPLINE
§ 33.150 PROCEDURE.
   The formal disciplinary process is a five step procedure, but dismissal may
occur at any step in the process. Superintendents may use the Discipline Form
attached as Appendix C for documentation purposes. Under normal circumstances,
these steps are outlined in the following sections.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.151 VERBAL REPRIMAND.
   A verbal reprimand informs an employee of unsatisfactory conduct, attitude
or performance, and acknowledges that continued such actions will result in
more severe disciplinary actions. The reprimand should be done in private, and
should be documented with the date and nature of the problem and placed in the
employee's personnel file.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.152 WRITTEN REPRIMAND.
   A written reprimand informs an employee of unsatisfactory conduct, attitude
or performance. Written reprimand is more severe than a verbal reprimand, but
serves the same purpose to acknowledge further unsatisfactory conduct,
attitude, or performance and will result in more severe disciplinary action. A
copy of the written reprimand will be sent to the employee, the Superintendent,
Mayor and employee's personnel file.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.153 PROBATION.
   (A)   An employee may be placed on probation by the Superintendent and/or
the Mayor if the employee's performance is substandard and/or the employee's
conduct and behavior are inappropriate and not condoned by management. An
employee may be placed on probation not to exceed six months. At the end of
three months, an informal evaluation of the employee's performance will be
conducted. At the end of the probationary period, the employee's performance
will be formally evaluated.
   (B)   Evaluations will determine if the employee should be retained. If the
employee violates the conditions of the probation, the employee may be subject
to termination. Removal from probationary status is based upon satisfactory
completion of the probationary period, recommendation from the employee's
immediate superintendent, and approval of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.154 SUSPENSION.
   Suspension of an employee would be at the discretion of the Superintendent.
The suspension will result in a loss of salary for the period of the
suspension. Upon return to work the suspended employee will be placed on
probationary status for a period not to exceed six months. If the employee
violates the conditions of the probation, the employee may be subject to
termination. Removal from probationary status is based upon satisfactory
completion of a probationary period, a recommendation from the employee's
immediate superintendent, and the approval of the Mayor and Village Board. The
period of suspension may be up to but not exceeding 30 days off without pay in
one calendar year. The suspension may include demotion, and is within the
discretion of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.155 DISMISSAL.
   Dismissal should be used as a disciplinary action of last resort at the
discretion of the Mayor and the Village Board. All employees are subject to
discharge by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board during
any of the disciplinary steps.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 155.156 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   Disciplinary action may be brought against an employee for the following,
including but not limited to:
   (A)   Violating any provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Knowingly falsifying a report.
   (C)   Being insubordinate to or showing disrespect towards superiors.
   (D)   Neglecting to perform the job or performing the job inefficiently.
   (E)   Engaging in any conduct unbecoming of a village employee or that
discredits the village.
   (F)   Leaving the assigned job without permission.
   (G)   Absence from work without leave or permission.
   (H)   Willfully destroying or damaging any property of the village.
   (I)   Taking or giving bribes.
   (J)   Being under the influence of alcoholic or intoxicating beverages while
at work.
   (K)   Using, manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, or possessing any
statutorily defined illegal drugs, narcotics, or controlled substances, or
failing to report to the employee's Superintendent any arrest or conviction for
using, manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, or possessing any statutorily
defined illegal drugs, narcotics, or controlled substance.
   (L)   Failure of any employee to notify their Superintendent within 24 hours
after an arrest or conviction of a violation of any local, state, or federal
criminal drug statute.
   (M)   Using a village vehicle without the knowledge of the immediate
supervisor.
   (N)   Improperly operating a village vehicle or permitting an unauthorized
person to operate a village vehicle.
   (O)   Excessive unexcused absence from work or tardiness.
   (P)   Possession of explosives, firearms or other dangerous weapons on
village premises, unless otherwise permitted.
   (Q)   Use of overtime for other than work purposes.
   (R)   Failure to follow any safety rules, regulations, or manuals.
   (S)   Gambling during working hours around village premises.
   (T)   Sleeping on the job.
   (U)   Being discourteous to the public.
   (V)   Engaging in or instigating or causing an interruption or impeding
work.
   (W)   Substantial misrepresentation of facts in obtaining employment with
the village.
   (X)   The use or consumption of village property for personal or private
purposes, or the use of village employees during working hours for such
purposes.
   (Y)   Disorderly conduct during working time or on village premises,
including fighting, interfering with work of another, or threatening or abusing
any person by word or act.
   (Z)   Unauthorized use of village property such as village owned vehicles,
equipment and materials.
   (AA)   Abuse of sick leave by misrepresentation of the leave request.
   (BB)   Violation of a written order of a Superintendent.
   (CC)   Using profanity on the job.
   (DD)   Releasing confidential information.
   (EE)   Using or attempting to use an official position to secure special
privileges, exemptions, or personal gain except as may be otherwise provided by
law.
   (FF)   Engaging in disreputable acts and not conducting themselves with
"good moral character."
   (GG)   Abuse of telephone usage.
   (HH)   Theft of any village or employee property.
   (II)   Discriminating against any person, individual, entity, co-employee,
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap or
disability, ancestry, marital status, sex harassment or any other prohibited
form of discrimination under federal or state law or government contract or
grantee regulations.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.157 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No form of discipline can occur because of any employee's political
activity or political beliefs. This prohibition on discipline does not apply to
individuals in policy making or confidential positions or where an overriding
interest to vital importance exists which requires that an employee's political
beliefs and activities conform to those of the Superintendent or the corporate
authorities.
   (B)   The village also recognizes that false accusations can have serious
effects on innocent men and women. We trust that all employees will continue to
act in a responsible and professional manner to establish a pleasant working
environment free of discrimination.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 33.170 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The purpose of a grievance procedure is to establish and maintain
harmonious and cooperative working relationships between the village and its
employees, to assure equitable treatment of employees, and to provide
expeditious means of resolving employee dissatisfaction over circumstances or
conditions of employment.
   (B)   Strict adherence to the grievance procedures and time limits is
mandatory, except that the time limits may be extended for good cause.
   (C)   A grievance is defined as a dispute, disagreement, complaint, or any
matter concerning any terms or conditions of employment, or concerning the
application of any departmental policy, or concerning any employee
relationship, or work related issue.
   (D)   As used in this subchapter, the term DAYS shall mean working days of
the employee filing the grievance.
   (E)   At any step, if a written response is not provided to the grieving
employee within the ten-day time frame, the grievance will be considered denied
at that step, and the employee may proceed to the next step.
   (F)   If any Superintendent is disciplined and/or discharged by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Village Board, the discipline and/or
discharge shall constitute the final resolution of the matter and there shall
be no access in this instance to the various steps of the grievance procedure.
The failure of a reappointment of a Superintendent by the Mayor shall not be
interpreted to constitute discipline and/or discharge of an ongoing employment
relationship with the village.
   (G)   Steps.
      (1)   A grieving employee shall within five days after he or she learns
of the circumstances or conditions which prompted the grievance, submit the
grievance to the employee's Superintendent, in writing, informing such
Superintendent of the grievance and the particulars concerning the same. The
Superintendent shall provide a written response to the grieving employee within
ten days after receiving the grievance.
      (2)   If the grievance is not resolved to the employee's satisfaction,
the employee may submit the grievance to the Mayor by summarizing the grievance
in writing.
   (H)   The grievance must be submitted to the Mayor within five days of the
decision of the Superintendent.
   (I)   For all other employees, the grievance shall be before the Mayor.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.171 LAYOFFS.
   In the event it becomes necessary to layoff employees for any reason,
employees will be laid off based on the following criteria: employee's
knowledge, skills, and abilities in relation to positions available, lack of
work, lack of funds, the employee's length of service, the employee's work
record including commendations as well as disciplinary action, the employee's
attitude and relations with other employees as well as other agencies and
change in duties of the department. The employee shall receive two weeks'
notice.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 33.172 RESIGNATION.
   Sick leave, vacation, and retirement fund benefits cease at midnight on the
date of termination. Life and health insurance will cease at the end of the
month of the termination. Employees may elect to continue participation in the
plan on a self-pay basis as provided by federal statutes. The employee will be
paid for each day of accrued and unused vacation time. Monies accumulated in
the employee's retirement account may be refundable, according to IMRF Rules.
Forms required to request this refund are available from the IMRF website.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
APPENDIX A: DRUG FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
PHILOSOPHY
   The village is committed to providing a productive, safe, and healthy work
environment. The use of illegal drugs and the abuse and misuse of alcohol,
prescription drugs, and even lawful products (including cannabis a/k/
a marijuana), adversely affects those objectives by increasing absenteeism,
lowering productivity and quality, decreasing public confidence and trust, and
jeopardizing the health and safety of those involved and the safety of others.
When such conduct interferes with an employee's efficient and safe performance
of work responsibilities and/or reduces the employee's dependability and
accountability, it creates a problem for the whole organization.
   The village recognizes that our employees' health and safety is of the
utmost importance. Drug use and alcohol misuse may pose a serious threat to
employee health and safety. It also jeopardizes the health and safety of the
public. The work environment is safer and more productive without the presence
of drugs or alcohol in the body while on village time. Further, all employees
have a right to work in a drug free environment and to work with individuals
free from the effects of drugs or alcohol.
   The cost of illegal drug use and of alcohol abuse, both on a personal and
organizational level, is unacceptable. The rising incidence of this problem
makes it imperative that the village implement this zero-tolerance drug free
workplace policy.
DRUG FREE WORKPLACE STATEMENT
A.   Controlled Substances
   Village employees are prohibited from possessing, using, dispensing,
distributing, and manufacturing controlled substances in the workplace, while
performing the employee's duties, or while on call. Employees are also
prohibited from being impaired by or under the influence of controlled
substances while at the employee's workplace, while performing the employee's
duties, while operating village equipment (including vehicles), or while on
call. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE means a controlled substance as defined in the
Illinois Drug Free Workplace Act. These include, but are not limited to,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogenics, and
barbituates.
B.   Cannabis/Marijuana
   The village recognizes that certain states and municipalities allow the use
of cannabis and/or medicinal cannabis. Illinois' medical cannabis law permits
an individual with a qualifying debilitating medical condition to register as a
medical cannabis patient and avoid civil and criminal penalties under state law
for certain medical uses of cannabis. Likewise, recreational cannabis law in
Illinois permits an adult (21 years of age or older) to use cannabis and avoid
civil and criminal penalties under state law. However, in accordance with
Illinois and federal law, and in order to maintain a safe, efficient, and
effective workplace, village employees are prohibited from possessing, using,
dispensing, distributing, and manufacturing cannabis (a/k/a marijuana) in the
workplace. Employees are also prohibited to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law from being impaired by or under the influence of cannabis while
at the employee's workplace, while performing the employee's duties, while
operating village equipment (including vehicles), or while on call. CANNABIS
means the definition of that term under the Illinois Cannabis Control Act.
   If the village has a good faith belief that an employee is impaired or under
the influence of cannabis while at the employee's workplace, while performing
the employee's duties, while operating village equipment (including vehicles),
or while on call, the village may require the employee to submit to drug
testing. Refusal to submit to such a test will be considered a violation of
this policy and will result in immediate disciplinary action up to and
including dismissal.
   Pursuant to the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, the village
considers an employee impaired by or under the influence of cannabis if, based
upon a good faith belief, the employee is manifesting specific, articualable
symptoms of impairment in the course of the employee's job duties and those
symptoms decrease the employee's performance of those duties. Examples of
symptoms indicating impairment include, but are not limited to: impairment of
the employee's speech, physical dexterity, agility, coordination, demeanor,
irrational or unusual behavior, or negligence or carelessness in operating
equipment or machinery; disregard for the safety of the employee or others, or
involvement in any accident that results in serious damages to equipment or
property; disruption of a production or manufacturing process; or carelessness
that results in any injury to the employee or others.
   If an employee tests positive for cannabis, and if the village determines
that disciplinary action is warranted, then the employee may appeal the
village's good faith belief that the employee was impaired by or under the
influence of cannabis, and the subsequent request for a drug test. The employee
must submit an appeal in writing within seven days of the determination to the
Superintendent with any documentation, evidence, or other facts the employee
wishes the Superintendent to consider with the appeal.
C.   Alcohol
   Village employees are prohibited from possessing, using, dispensing,
distributing, and manufacturing alcohol in the workplace, while performing the
employee's duties, or while on call. Employees are also prohibited from being
impaired by or under the influence of alcohol while at the employee's
workplace, while performing the employee's duties, while operating village
equipment (including vehicles), or while on call. Possession of alcohol applies
to all open or unsealed containers which contain alcoholic beverages.
D.   Agreement by Employees
   All employees will, as a condition of employment:
   1.   Agree not to manufacture, distribute, dispense, possess, use, or be
impaired by or under the influence of controlled substances, cannabis, or
alcohol in the workplace, while performing the employee's duties, or while on
call;
   2.   Agreed to notify their respective Superintendent of any arrest or
conviction of any local, state, or federal criminal drug statute no later than
24 hours after such arrest or conviction; and
   3.   Agree to abide by the conditions set forth in this policy.
VIOLATIONS
   1.   Employees are subject to disciplinary action up to and including
dismissal for violation of this policy.
   2.   The village shall notify the appropriate state agency from which grant
funds were received of an employee's conviction within ten days after receiving
notice from an employee of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation
in the workplace.
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE
   A referral network to assist those who may be experiencing problems with
drugs and/or alcohol has been established for all village employees.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
   There is no requirement by the employer to keep an employee on active
employment status who is receiving rehabilitative treatment if it is determined
that the employee's current use of drugs or alcohol prevents the individual
from performing work related duties or whose continuance on active status could
constitute a threat to the property and/or safety of others. The employee shall
pay for all costs of rehabilitation. The employee may use accumulated paid
leave, and take unpaid leave pending treatment, at the discretion of the
employer, and so long as the employee advised the Superintendent of his or her
problem with drugs and/or alcohol prior to occurrence of reasonable suspicion.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
APPENDIX B: EMPLOYEE NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL CODE AND DRUG FREE WORKPLACE
POLICY AND DISCLAIMER OF EMPLOYMENT
   The Employee Code of the village is not intended to create any employment
relationship with any employees that is contractual in nature. All employees
are employed at the will of the village, and employees can be terminated at
will. All employment policies of the village are subject to change without
notice and/or approval of any employee. Any and all discipline and/or discharge
procedures contained in this code are illustrative in nature, and only provide
examples of the manner in which employees may be disciplined or terminated. Any
and all such procedures are not meant to be the sole or exclusive way in which
discipline or discharge could occur.
   By signing this disclaimer, the employee understands that the employment
relationship between the employee and the village is NOT contractual in nature;
that employment can be terminated at the will of the village, that all
employment policies are subject to change without notice and/or approval of the
employee; and that any and all discipline and/or discharge procedures contained
in the code are merely illustrative in nature, and are not meant to be the sole
or exclusive manner in which discipline and/or discharge could occur.
I have been given a copy of the Village's Employee Code, originally adopted
__________________________________, ______.
I understand that contained without the Employee Code is the Drug Free
Workplace Policy. I have read and understood the Drug Free Workplace Policy,
and agree to abide by its terms and conditions.
Name _______________________________
Date                                                        
This form is to be retained by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
APPENDIX C: EMPLOYEE CODE: DISCIPLINE FORM
Date ______________________________________________________________
Employee Name
__________________________________________________________________
Employee's Job Position
____________________________________________________________
Village Department
________________________________________________________________
Superintendent
____________________________________________________________________
Type of Discipline (Check One):
                    Verbal Reprimand
                    Written Reprimand
                    Probation
                    Suspension
                    Dismissal
State the section of the Employee Code violated:
Section ________       Subsection ________       Page Number _________
State any Code of Conduct violation, listing the Code of Conduct subparagraph
number                    
                                                                                                                                                
State the facts which support the violation
                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                
 
DATE _________________________      _____________________________________
                           Superintendent
DATE ____________________________   __________________________________
                           (Signature of Employee)
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
APPENDIX D: AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
   1.   All complaints regarding access or alleged discrimination should be
submitted in writing to the ADA Coordinator for resolution. A record of the
complaint and action taken will be maintained. A decision by the ADA
Coordinator will be rendered promptly.
   2.   If the complaints cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of the
complainant by the ADA Coordinator, then for building accessibility issues, the
matter shall be turned over to the Village Board for consideration. For
employment and public service issues, the matter will be forwarded to the
Village Board for consideration.
   3.   If the complaint cannot be resolved to the complainant's satisfaction
by the Village Board, the complaint will be reviewed and decided upon by the
Mayor. The decision of the Mayor shall be considered final.
   4.   A record of action taken on each request or complaint shall be
maintained as a part of the records or minutes at each level of the grievance
process.
   5.   The individual's right to prompt and equitable resolution of the
complaint shall not be impaired by his/her pursuit of other remedies, such as
the filing of a complaint with the U.S. Department of Justice or any other
appropriate federal agency. Furthermore, the filing of a lawsuit in state or
federal district court can occur at any time. The use of this grievance
procedure is not a prerequisite to the pursuit of other remedies.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
APPENDIX E: REQUEST FOR FAMILY OR MEDICAL LEAVE
Request for family or medical leave must be made, if practical, at least 30
days prior to the date the requested leave is to begin.
Name                                                      Date
                                                       
Department                                              Title
                                                       
Status    [   ] Full-Time       [   ] Part-Time         [   ] Temporary
Hire Date:                                                 Length of Service
                                      
                                                                                                                                           
I request Family or Medical Leave for one or more of the following reasons:
[   ] Because of the birth of my child and in order to care for him or her*
Expected date of birth                              Actual date of birth
                                      
Leave start                                              Expected return date
                                    
[   ] Because of the placement of a child with me for adoption or foster care**
Leave start                                              Expected return date
                                    
[   ] In order to care for my spouse, child, or parent who has a serious health
condition*
Leave start                                              Expected return date
                                    
[   ] For a serious health condition that makes me unable to perform by job*
Describe:
                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
Leave start                                              Expected return date
                                    
*A physician's certification will be required for leave due to a serious health
condition.
**Certification will be required for leave due to adoption or foster care.
[   ] For other reasons. Describe:
                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                            
Leave start                                              Expected return date
                                    
[   ] Requested intermittent leave schedule (if applicable; subject to
employer's approval).
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                            
Have you taken a Family or Medical Leave in the past 12 months? [   ] Yes    
[   ] No
If yes, how many workdays?                       
I understand and agree to the following provisions:
I have worked for the Village of Moweaqua at least one year and at least 1,250
hours in the previous 12 months.
If I fail to return to work after the leave for reasons other than the
continuation, recurrence, or onset of a serious health condition that would
entitle me to medical leave or other circumstances beyond my control, I may be
financially responsible for the medical insurance premiums the village paid
while I was on leave.
This leave will be unpaid, unless under the village policy, I would be eligible
for sick leave or have accrued vacation or comp time; or in the case of my own
disability, payment will occur under a disability program with IMRF, if I am so
covered.
I may be required to exhaust my vacation, comp time, or sick leave as part of
my 12 weeks of leave.
After 12 weeks of leave, if I do not return to work or contact my supervisor or
manager on the date intended, it will be considered that I abandoned my job.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
APPENDIX F: REQUEST FOR SPECIAL LEAVE
Request for special leave must be made at least 30 days prior to the date the
requested leave is to begin.
Name                                                         Date
                                                        
Department                                                 Title
                                                        
Hire Date:                                                  Length of Service
                                      
All full-time and salary exempt employees who have completed one full year of
continuous service may request a special leave. Special leave will only be
granted for personal reasons, and must be approved by employee's
Superintendent. Special leave shall be granted without pay. The period for
special leave shall not exceed six months. An extension may be granted up to a
maximum of six months for a total of one year. In order to continue to receive
medical and insurance benefits during a special leave, the employee shall
contribute both the employee and the employer's share of IMRF and insurance
costs.
I wish to request a special leave for the following reasons:
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                
Employee Signature                                       Date
                                                       
Address                                                        Phone
                                                     
LEAVE APPROVAL 
Superintendent                                                                 
                                         
            Signature                    Date
 
PLEASE FORWARD COMPLETED REQUEST TO THE PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT FOR FURTHER
PROCESSING.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.001   Department established
   
34.002   Training required
   
34.003   Responsibilities
   
34.004   Chief of Police
   
34.005   Rules and regulations; approval
   
34.006   Violations by officers
   
34.007   Disciplinary action
   
34.008   Hearing requested
   
34.009   Time frame for hearings
   
34.010   Rights to position
   
34.011   Chief of police appointed
   
34.012   Oath, bond, salary
   
34.013   Duties of Chief
   
34.014   Duty of protection
   
34.015   Attendance at Village Board meetings
   
34.016   Monthly reports by Chief
   
34.017   Supervision over property
   
34.018   Notification
   
34.019   [Intentionally omitted]
   
34.020   Oath by patrol officer
   
34.021   [Intentionally omitted]
   
34.022   Sergeant appointed by Chief
   
34.023   Commitment to job
   
34.024   Execution of warrants
   
34.025   Assisting Fire Department
   
34.026   [Intentionally omitted]
   
34.027   Temporary officers
   
34.028   Appointment of special police officers
   
34.029   Power to arrest
   
34.030   Officer requests aid
   
34.031   Interfering with officer
   
34.032   Appointment of matrons
   
34.033   Crossing guards
   
34.034   Part-time officers; hiring standards
   
34.035   Police policy manual
   
34.036   School Resource Officer
Civil Emergency
   
34.050   [Intentionally omitted]
   
34.051   Declaration of emergency
   
34.052   Curfew
   
34.053   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
34.054   Effectiveness
   
34.055   Notification
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA)
   
34.070   Policy and procedures
   
34.071   Limitations
   
34.072   Definitions
   
34.073   Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
34.074   Emergency services and disaster powers of the Mayor
   
34.075   Financing
   
34.076   Local disaster emergencies
   
34.077   Testing of disaster warning devices
   
34.078   Mutual aid arrangements between political subdivisions
   
34.079   Communications
   
34.080   Immunity
   
34.081   Professions, trades and occupations
   
34.082   Appropriations and levy of tax
   
34.083   Authority to accept services, gifts, grants or loans
   
34.084   Orders, rules and regulations
   
34.085   Utilization of existing agency, facilities and personnel
   
34.086   No private liability
   
34.087   Succession
   
34.088   Compensation
   
34.089   Personnel oath
   
34.090   Emergency termination or reduction of electrical service
National Incident Management System
   
34.105   Adoption by reference
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.001 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village to be known as the Police Department, which shall be under the
supervision of the Mayor, and shall constitute one Chief of Police, patrol
officers (one of whom may be designated as Sergeant by the Chief of Police) and
other employees as may be approved from time to time by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-1) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.002 TRAINING REQUIRED.
   All members of the Village Police Department are required to take and
successfully complete all training which is required from time to time by the
Police Committee.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-2) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.003 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Police Department is responsible for the following:
   (A)   Crime preventive patrol activities;
   (B)   Protection of life and property, preservation of the peace,
enforcement of the law, and suppression of crime, protection of the rights of
all;
   (C)   Investigation of police incidents and minor crimes, preliminary
investigation of serious crimes;
   (D)   Traffic law enforcement, traffic control and traffic accident
investigations;
   (E)   Follow-up investigations of serious crimes, vice crimes and fatal
motor vehicle accidents;
   (F)   Preparation of cases for prosecution;
   (G)   Recovery of stolen property;
   (H)   Processing of juvenile offenders;
   (I)   Maintaining liaison with the juvenile court; and
   (J)   Other duties as may be assigned by the Mayor or the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-3) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.004 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The general administration, supervision and control of the Police Department
is vested in the Chief of Police who shall be subject to and shall carry out or
cause to be carried out all legal directions of the Mayor for the efficiency,
effectiveness and general good conduct of the Police Department.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-4) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.005 RULES AND REGULATIONS; APPROVAL.
   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the Mayor and the Village Board,
may promulgate any rules and regulations to maintain the efficiency,
effectiveness and integrity of the Police Department. A complete and current
copy of said rules and regulations, including all amendments, revocations and
additions thereto shall be kept on file with the Village Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-5) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.006 VIOLATIONS BY OFFICERS.
   Any officer or member of the Department who violates or attempts to violate
any law of the United States or the state, or any ordinance of the village, or
any rule, regulation, policy or procedure of the Police Department, or any
general or special order, whether written or oral, of the Chief of Police or
Mayor, or who is in any way incompetent to perform the duties of this office,
shall be subject to disciplinary action. Primary disciplinary authority and
responsibility within the Department shall rest with the Chief of Police, who
is authorized to issue oral reprimands, written reprimands and suspensions up
to 30 days without pay. All disciplinary action taken by the Chief of Police is
subject to review by the Police Commissioner. Dismissal from service may be
recommended by the Chief of Police, but shall be imposed by the Mayor. Any
disciplinary action against the Chief of Police shall be imposed by the Police
Committee.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-6) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.007 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   Any disciplinary action taken by the Chief of Police against any member of
the Department shall be reviewed by the Police Committee within ten days after
a written request for review is submitted to him or her by the member of the
Department against whom such disciplinary action is taken, provided that the
written request for review is submitted within five days after notification of
the disciplinary action is given to the disciplined member of the Department.
Failure to submit a written request for review within five days after
notification of disciplinary action shall be deemed to be a waiver by the
disciplined member of the Department of any and all right of review.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-7) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.008 HEARING REQUESTED.
   Any full-time, regular, sworn member of the Department, who has completed at
least six months of continuous service with the Department, and who is
suspended more than three days by the Chief of Police and such suspension is
upheld upon review by the Police Committee, or who is dismissed from service by
the Mayor, may request a hearing on such disciplinary action before the Village
Board, by submitting a written request for such hearing to the Village Clerk
within five days after such disciplinary action is upheld or imposed by the
Police Committee. No temporary patrol officer, special police or any clerical
staff assigned to the Police Department, nor any member of the Police
Department who has not successfully completed his or her probationary period,
is entitled to said review hearing before the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-8) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.009 TIME FRAME FOR HEARINGS.
   Within 30 days after an authorized written request for hearing is submitted
to the Village Clerk, the Village Board shall conduct a fair and impartial
hearing of the charges made against the officer and the disciplinary action
taken. Said hearing shall be conducted as an adversary proceeding, in which the
Department shall be represented by the Village Attorney and the disciplined
officer shall have the right to be represented at his or her own expense by an
attorney of his or her own choosing. Notice of the hearing, together with a
petition setting forth the charges against the disciplined officer and the
disciplinary action taken, shall be served upon the disciplined officer or his
or her attorney no less than ten days prior to the hearing. The Mayor shall
preside over the hearing, and a certified court reporter shall be present to
administer oaths to all witnesses and record the testimony. The hearing shall
not be bound by formal and technical rules of evidence; however, hearsay
evidence will not be admissible. If the Village Board determines that the
charges are not sustained, the disciplined officer shall be reimbursed for all
wages withheld, if any, and reinstated to his or her position prior to the
notification of disciplinary action. If the Village Board determines that the
charges are sustained, then it shall either affirm the disciplinary action
imposed or modify such disciplinary action where appropriate. The Village
Board’s findings and decision shall be made in writing and presented at the
first open Board meeting be served upon the disciplined officer.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-9) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.010 RIGHTS TO POSITION.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in any rules or regulations promulgated or to
be promulgated by the Chief of Police with the consent of the Mayor shall be
deemed to give any member of the Department any right to continued employment
or any property interest in his or her position beyond the expiration of his or
her term of office or disciplinary action.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-10) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.011 CHIEF OF POLICE APPOINTED.
   There is hereby created the office of Chief of Police, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Village Board. The Chief of
Police shall be appointed and is an employee at will to the village. The Chief
of Police’s term of employment shall run until he or she is suspended or
dismissed for good cause or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. Good cause for removal of the Chief of Police may be based on, but
not limited to, conduct unbecoming of a police officer, lack of moral
character, criminal convictions or pleas of guilty to criminal charges, poor
performance of duty and the like. No one shall be deemed to have any right or
property interest in the office of Chief of Police after the expiration of this
term or removal from office. The Chief of Police shall be vested with the
general administration, supervision and control of the Police Department and
shall perform such duties as are imposed upon him or her by law or ordinance,
and in addition thereto such other duties as may be assigned to him or her from
time to time by the Village Board or by the Mayor. He or she shall be known
also as the Village Marshal.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-11) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.012 OATH, BOND, SALARY.
   Before entering upon the duties of the office of Chief of Police, a person
shall take the oath prescribed for all city officers, and enter into bond in
the penal sum of $5,000, with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by
the Village Board, condition upon the faithful performance and discharge of his
or her duties in such office. He or she shall receive such salary or
compensation as the Village Board by ordinance or resolution may direct.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-12) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.013 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall, in subordination to the Mayor, have the
full management and control of the Police Department, and all regulations and
orders of said Department shall be promulgated through him or her. All
subordinate officers of said Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations as from time to time shall be prescribed by said Chief of Police
with the approval of the Mayor. Primary disciplinary authority and
responsibility within the Department shall rest with the Chief of Police, who
is authorized to issue oral reprimands, written reprimands and suspension up to
30 days without pay.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall devote his or her entire time to the
discharge of the duties of his or her office, and shall be charged with the
preservation of the peace, order, safety and cleanliness of the village, and to
this end shall execute and enforce all ordinances and Police Department rules
and regulations of said village, and orders of the Village Board and Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-13) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.014 DUTY OF PROTECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall be charged with the duty of protecting the rights
of persons and property and providing proper police protection at every fire
within the village limits. He or she shall also take notice of all nuisances
and take proper steps to abate the same. He or she shall cause to be removed
all impediments and obstructions in the streets, avenues, alleys and public
places of the village, or cause immediate notice thereof to be given to the
proper officer whose duty it may be to attend to the same, according to the
ordinances of the village.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-14) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.015 ATTENDANCE AT VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS.
   The Chief of Police shall attend, either in person or by deputy, all
meetings of the Village Board when requested by the Mayor. He or she shall also
serve all warrants or other legal process required to be served by him or her
by law or ordinance of the village.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-15) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.016 MONTHLY REPORTS BY CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall make monthly reports in writing to the Mayor, who
shall lay same before the Village Board, of the number of arrests made by the
Police Department during the preceding month and the offenses charged.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-16) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.017 SUPERVISION OVER PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall have general supervision of all books, records,
equipment and other property belonging to the Police Department, and of stolen
goods seized and detained by police authority. Upon expiration of his or her
term of office, or resignation or removal therefrom, he or she shall surrender
to his or her successor in office, all books, records, equipment, property and
other effects coming into his or her possession by virtue of his or her office.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-17) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.018 NOTIFICATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause the Village Attorney to
be informed of any suits instituted by him or her, or through him or her and
his or her Department, wherein the interest of the village may require the
presence of said Village Attorney at the trial thereof.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-18) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.019 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 34.020 OATH BY PATROL OFFICER.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, each patrol officer
shall take the oath prescribed for all village officers.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-20) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.021 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 34.022 SERGEANT APPOINTED BY CHIEF.
   A Sergeant may be appointed by the Chief of Police, at his or her
discretion, from the ranks of patrol officers and may be returned to patrol
officer at any time by the Chief of Police at his or her discretion, without
benefit of any hearing whatsoever. In addition to his or her duties as a patrol
officer, the Sergeant shall perform the duties to which he or she may be
assigned by the Chief of Police and shall assume the duties and
responsibilities of the Chief of Police in the absence of the Chief of Police.
The Sergeant also has the authority for emergency suspensions and for
disciplinary action in the absence of the Chief of Police.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-22) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.023 COMMITMENT TO JOB.
   All patrol officers when on duty shall devote their entire time to the
proper discharge of their duties as prescribed by the ordinances of the village
and the rules and regulations of the Police Department. It shall be their
special duty to preserve order, peace and quiet, and to enforce all the
ordinances throughout the village.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-23) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.024 EXECUTION OF WARRANTS.
   All patrol officers shall have power and authority and it shall be their
duty, to serve and execute warrants and other legal papers for the apprehension
and commitment of persons charged with the violation of any village ordinance,
or any crime or misdemeanor, or offense against the laws of the village and
state, or held for examination or trial. And they shall also have power and
authority and it shall be their duty to serve and execute any civil process
issued by any court on any person that is named in such civil process.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-24) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.025 ASSISTING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all patrol officers to aid the Fire Department or
any other authorized firefighting agency in case of fire within the village, by
clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity of the fire, whenever
the same shall be necessary to aid the firefighters in the performance of their
duties.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-25) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.026 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 34.027 TEMPORARY OFFICERS.
   The Mayor may, in emergencies or on special occasions when in his or her
judgment it shall be necessary for the preservation of the peace and order of
the village, appoint and commission such number of temporary patrol officers as
he or she may deem necessary. Said temporary patrol officers shall be dismissed
as soon as the exigency of their appointment shall no longer exist. During the
term of their appointment, said temporary patrol officers shall possess the
powers and exercise the duties of the regular patrol officers and shall receive
the same compensation. However, at the next regular meeting of the Village
Board after the appointment of a temporary patrol officer, the Mayor shall lay
before the Village Board the names and number of temporary patrol officers so
appointed and the cause therefor, and if the acts of the Mayor in making said
appointments are not approved and confirmed, said temporary patrol officers
shall be considered and held to be at once dismissed and discharged.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-27) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.028 APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   On application being made to him or her, the Mayor may appoint any suitable
person in the employ of any corporation, association, individual or firm, as a
special police officer in and for said village special police officers shall
have all the qualifications required in the case of regular patrol officers;
they shall take and subscribe the same oath, give like bond, exercise the same
power, be under the control of the same authorities, and be subject to the same
rules and regulations of the Police Department so far as the same are
applicable to them; provided, however, that such special police officers shall
not be compensated by nor deemed to be employees of the village.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-28) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.029 POWER TO ARREST.
   The patrol officers, together with the Chief of Police, and all persons
possessing the power and authority of patrol officers, shall have the power to
arrest all persons in the village found in the act of violating any law or
ordinance, or aiding or abetting in any such violation, and shall arrest all
persons found under suspicious circumstances and shall take all persons so
arrested to the appropriate local detention facility.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-29) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.030 OFFICER REQUESTS AID.
   Any police officer may, at any time, call upon any able bodied male person
above the age of 18 years to aid him or her in arresting or taking into custody
any person guilty of having committed any unlawful act, or charged therewith,
or to aid such officers in preventing the commission of any unlawful act.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-30) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.031 INTERFERING WITH OFFICER.
   Whoever shall resist any sworn member of the Police Department in the
discharge of his or her duty, or shall in any way interfere with or prevent him
or her from discharging his or her duty, or shall endeavor to do so; and
whoever shall, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any member of
the police force, to escape, or attempt to escape from such custody shall be
fined as provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-31) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.032 APPOINTMENT OF MATRONS.
   The Mayor may appoint three female matrons on a standby only basis for
purposes of transportation of any females or any other service where a female’s
presence is needed, pursuant to state statute or local rule. Such matrons must
be at least 21 years of age and of good moral character. Said matrons are
employees at will of the village and their term of employment can be suspended
or terminated by the Mayor for any good cause shown.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-32) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
§ 34.033 CROSSING GUARDS.
   The Mayor may appoint, with the approval of the Village Board, school
crossing guards. Said school crossing guards shall be under the direct control
and supervision of the Chief of Police.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-33) (Ord. 92-114, passed 8-10-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-2
§ 34.034 PART-TIME OFFICERS; HIRING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Village Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the United States military must
have been honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Officers shall be under the disciplinary jurisdiction of
the Chief of Police. Officers serve at the discretion of the village
authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment, and may be
removed by the village authorities at any time. Officers shall comply with all
applicable rules and general orders issued by the Police Department.
   (E)   Training.
      (1)   All police officers, other than those officers who shall be
employed on a full-time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully
complete any training mandated by the State Law Enforcement Training Standards
Board.
      (2)   The aforesaid hiring standards, particularly with respect to part-
time police officers employed by the village shall be submitted to the State
Law Enforcement Training Standards Board, as required by statute.
(Ord. 01/11/2011-2, passed 1-11-2011; Ord. 05/08/2012-1, passed 5-8-2012)
§ 34.035 POLICE POLICY MANUAL.
   (A)   The Police Policy and Procedures Manual, is adopted by reference and
incorporated in this code of ordinances as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   (1)   From time to time, it may be necessary to modify the policies
and procedures contained in the Manual.
      (2)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to make modifications to
the Police Policy and Procedures Manual with approval of the Mayor and Board of
Trustees in order to facilitate the administration and effectiveness of the
Police Department.
§ 34.036 SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER.
   (A)   Position created. The position of School Resource Officer (“SRO”) is
hereby created. The SRO shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and
shall subscribe the same oath, give like bond, exercise same power, be under
the control of the same authorities, and be subject to the same rules and
regulations of the Police Department so far as the same are applicable to him
or her. The School Resource Officer job is based on funding partially provided
by Central A&M School District (“CAM”) and the village. The SRO is an employee
of the Village and considered to be on special assignment to CAM during the
regular school year and duly designated and scheduled by the school district.
While on such special assignment, the SRO duty station shall be in the CAM
schools, primarily CAM High School, which shall serve as the SRO office and
base of operations.
   (B)   General responsibilities. The SRO shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
      (1)   Serve as the liaison between CAM and the village, and promote
effective communication.
      (2)   Serve as a consultant to CAM in matters of crime prevention, law
enforcement, community youth services and related matters.
      (3)   Assist CAM staff with school discipline, and refer any violations
to responsible school staff.
      (4)   Work with school personnel to prevent crime on school grounds, to
protect students and staff, and to provide a safe and secure school
environment. The SRO shall patrol the school and grounds, supervise parking
lots, monitor pedestrian and vehicular traffic on school grounds, and prevent
loitering and trespassing on school property.
      (5)   Conduct or coordinate the police investigation of incidents
involving CAM schools, its staff and students. The SRO will also investigate
other cases or perform other duties assigned by the Chief of Police or his or
her designee.
      (6)   Assist school personnel to monitor school lunch periods and passing
periods.
      (7)   Develop and maintain a familiarity with community delinquency
patterns, trouble spots, and other youth and community problems.
      (8)   Confer with and assist counselors and other school staff concerning
individuals, families and neighborhoods in the early identification of
troubled, neglected or abused youths and delinquent behavior.
      (9)   Participate in providing advice and guidance to students and
parents and assist in referral to appropriate community services.
      (10)   Assist in prevention of truancy, in processing truancy cases, and
in making home visits when required.
      (11)   Assist in the supervision of extra-curricular school activities.
      (12)   Complete and maintain police general offense, supplemental and
other reports as required by the Chief of Police.
      (13)   Perform other related duties necessary to maintain an effective
SRO program.
   (C)   Position and work hours. The SRO position is a nine-month salaried
position. General hours of work will be Monday through Friday, 0700-1600 hrs.
The SRO will work during the school year and be off when school is out for the
summer. The SRO will be expected to be in working on days when teachers are
working and off when teachers are off, subject to the requirement to work 90%
of the events listed below. Other than the normal school day duties, the SRO
will be expected to be present at a minimum of 90% of the following events:
      (1)   Graduation.
      (2)   Prom.
      (3)   Homecoming dance.
      (4)   Other school dances held at the school.
      (5)   Home football games.
      (6)   High school boys home basketball games.
      (7)   High school girls home basketball games as needed (determined by
CAM administration and Chief of Police).
      (8)   High school girls home volleyball games as needed (determined by
CAM administration and Chief of Police).
      (9)   Tournaments or conference wide competitions held at CAM.
      (10)   Regional or state competitions held at CAM.
      (11)   School Board meetings as determined by CAM administration and
Chief of Police.
      (12)   Other school events as determined by CAM administration and Chief
of Police.
   (D)   Other hours. The SRO will be paid on an hourly basis for work
performed outside of normal duties described above, such as assisting with
regular police duties after normal hours. During the school year, all such
hours will be overtime hours. Outside of the school year, overtime will be paid
only if the SRO exceeds 40 hours in a week.
   (E)   Leave. The SRO position will accumulate personal time off in
accordance with Illinois law. The SRO position will have summers off and will
not accumulate vacation days. If on employee is moved from patrol to SRO and
has a previously scheduled vacation that will be allowed with approval from the
Chief of Police
   (F)   Employee Personnel Code. The following provisions of the Employee
Personnel Code are not applicable to the SRO, except to the extent applicable
for work performed outside of normal duties described above:
      (1)   Section 33.09.
      (2)   Section 33.12.
      (3)   Section 33.14.
      (4)   Section 33.15.
      (5)   Section 33.16.
      (6)   Section 33.17.
      (7)   Section 33.18.
      (8)   Section 33.19.
      (9)   Section 33.20.
      (10)   Section 33.21.
      (11)   Section 33.22.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 7-11-2023; Ord. 2023-16, passed 11-14-2023)
Editor’s note:
   The Employees Personnel Code was adopted by reference in §
33.01.
CIVIL EMERGENCY
§ 34.050 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 34.051 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency as defined by ESDA Policy exists, the Mayor shall
declare the existence by means of a written declaration, setting forth the
facts which constitute the emergency.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 34.052 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole as he or she deems advisable and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 34.053 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and/or
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 34.054 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor indicating that
the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall have the power to
reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period
during the time the civil emergency exists.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 34.055 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall
notify the news media situated within the village and shall cause three copies
of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at
the following places within the village:
      (1)   The Village Hall;
      (2)   The post office; and
      (3)   The police station.
   (B)   See 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-6)
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
§ 34.070 POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Because of the possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from atomic or other means
from without, or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from
fire, flood, earthquake or other natural or human-made causes, and in order to
ensure that this municipality will be prepared to and will adequately deal with
any such disasters, preserve the lives and property of the people of this
municipality and protect the public peace, health and safety in the event of
such a disaster, it is found and declared to be necessary:
      (1)   To create a municipal emergency services and disaster agency;
      (2)   To confer upon the Mayor the extraordinary power and authority set
forth under §§
34.050 through
34.055 (65 ILCS 5/11-1-6); and
      (3)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid to other cities and
political subdivisions with respect to the carrying out of emergency services
and disaster operations.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor determines after an investigation that a dangerous
situation or a potentially dangerous situation exists which could cause death
to individuals or serious injury to property or the health and welfare of
public, the Mayor may declare that a state of emergency exists. The
extraordinary powers may not be exercised until an ordinance shall have been
adopted which shall establish standards for the determination by the Mayor of
when the state of emergency exists and shall provide that the Mayor may not
exercise such extraordinary power and authority except after signing under oath
a statement finding that such standards have been met, setting forth facts to
substantiate such findings, describing the nature of the emergency and
declaring that a state of emergency exists. This statement shall be filed with
the Clerk of the municipality as soon as practical. A state of emergency shall
expire not later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the
corporate authorities after the state of emergency is declared. A subsequent
state of emergency may be declared if necessary.
   (C)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this code and the policy
of the municipality that all emergency management programs of this municipality
be coordinated to the maximum extent with the comparable functions of the
federal and state governments, including their various departments and
agencies, of other municipalities and localities and private agencies of every
type, to the end that the most effective preparation and use may be made of the
nation’s manpower, resources, and facilities for dealing with any disaster that
may occur.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-1)
§ 34.071 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this code shall be construed to:
   (A)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a private labor dispute,
except that actions otherwise authorized by this code or other laws may be
taken when necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to
public health or safety;
   (B)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization (including but not limited to radio
and television stations, wire services, and newspapers) may be requested to
transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster;
   (C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces, units of
the armed forces of the United States, or of any personnel thereof, when on
active duty; but state and local emergency operations plans shall place
reliance upon the forces available for performance of functions related to
disaster emergencies; and
   (D)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the Mayor and the Village
Board to exercise any other powers vested in them under the constitution,
statutes or common law of this state, independent of or in conjunction with any
provisions of this code.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-2)
§ 34.072 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The staff assistant to the Mayor with the duty of carrying out
the requirements of this code.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, explosion, critical
shortages of essential fuels and energy, riot or hostile military or
paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The efforts of this municipality to develop, plan,
analyze, conduct, implement and maintain programs for disaster mitigation.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The written plan of the municipality describing
the organization, mission and functions of the government and supporting
services for responding to and recovery from disasters.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. The preparation for and the carrying out of such
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood,
earthquake or other human-made or natural causes. These functions including,
without limitation, firefighting services, police services, emergency aviation
services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, chemical and other special weapons defense,
evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency assigned functions of
plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental to protecting life or property.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any county, city, village or incorporated town.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-3)
§ 34.073 EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby created an emergency services and disaster agency and
a coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency, herein called the
“coordinator”, who shall be the head thereof. The coordinator shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board. He or she
shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall obtain, with Board
approval, such technical, clerical, stenographic and other administrative
personnel, and may make such expenditures within their appropriation therefor
as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this code.
   (C)   (1)   The coordinator, subject to the direction and control of the
Mayor, shall be the executive head of the Municipal Emergency Service and
Disaster Agency, and shall be responsible under the direction of the Mayor for
carrying out the program for emergency services and disaster operations of this
municipality. He or she shall coordinate the activities of all organizations
for emergency services and disaster operations within this municipality and
shall maintain liaison, and cooperate with, the civil defense and emergency
management agencies and organization of the county, other counties and
municipalities, and of the federal and state government.
      (2)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to
serve by the coordinator, the Mayor or any persons designated by him or her,
shall be and act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in
this code.
   (D)   The Municipal Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall take an
integral part in the development and revision of the local emergency operations
plan.
   (E)   In the development of the emergency operations plan, the municipal
emergency services and disaster agency shall interrelate with business, labor,
industry, agriculture, civic and volunteer organizations, and community
leaders.
   (F)   The Municipal Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall:
      (1)   Determine the requirements of the municipality for food, clothing
and other necessities in the event of an emergency;
      (2)   Develop an Emergency Operations Plan that meets the standards
promulgated by the State Emergency Management Agency;
      (3)   Biannually review and revise the local Emergency Operations Plan;
      (4)   Establish a register of persons with types of training and skills
in emergency prevention, preparedness, response and recovery;
      (5)   Establish a register of government and private response resources
available for use in a disaster;
      (6)   Prepare, for issuance by the Mayor, ordinances, proclamations and
regulations as necessary or appropriate in coping with disasters;
      (7)   Cooperate with the federal, state and county government and any
public or private agency or entity in achieving any purpose of this subchapter
and in implementing programs for disaster prevention, preparation, response and
recovery;
      (8)   Initiate and coordinate planning for:
         (a)   The establishment of an emergency operating center; and
         (b)   The implementation of a 911 system.
      (9)   Do all other things necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-4)
§ 34.074 EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the general direction and control of the
emergency services and disaster agency, and shall be responsible for the
carrying out of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   In performing his or her duties under this subchapter, the Mayor is
authorized to cooperate with state and federal governments and with other
municipalities and political subdivisions in all matters pertaining to
emergency services and disaster operations defined in this subchapter.
   (C)   In performing his or her duties under this subchapter, the Mayor is
further authorized:
      (1)   To make, amend and rescind all lawful necessary orders, rules and
regulations of the local disaster plan to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter within the limits of the authority conferred upon him or her;
      (2)   To cause to be prepared a comprehensive plan and program for the
emergency management of this municipality which plan and program shall be
integrated into and coordinated with disaster plans of the state and federal
governments and other political subdivisions, and which plan and program may
include:
         (a)   Prevention and minimization of injury and damage caused by
disaster;
         (b)   Prompt and effective response to disaster;
         (c)   Emergency relief;
         (d)   Identification of areas particularly vulnerable to disasters;
         (e)   Recommendations for zoning, building and other land use
controls, safety measures for securing permanent structures and other
preventive and preparedness measures designed to eliminate or reduce disasters
or their impact;
         (f)   Assistance to local officials in designing local emergency
action plans;
         (g)   Authorization and procedures for the erection or other
construction of temporary works designed to protect against or mitigate danger,
damage or loss from flood, conflagration or other disaster;
         (h)   Organization of municipal manpower and chains of command;
         (i)   Coordination of local emergency management activities; and
         (j)   Other necessary matters.
      (3)   In accordance with such plan and program for the emergency
management of this municipality, and out of funds appropriated for such
purposes, to procure and preposition supplies, medicines, materials and
equipment to institute training programs and public information programs, and
to take all other preparatory steps, including the partial or full mobilization
of emergency services and disaster organizations in advance of actual disaster
to ensure the furnishing of adequately trained and equipped forces for disaster
operations.
      (4)   Out of funds appropriated for such purposes, to make such studies
and surveys of the industries, resources and facilities in this Municipality as
may be necessary to ascertain the capabilities of the municipality for the
emergency management phases of preparedness, response, and recovery, and to
plan for the most efficient emergency use thereof.
   (D)   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a municipal building, or
elsewhere for the emergency services and disaster agency as its office.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-5)
§ 34.075 FINANCING.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Village Board and declared to be the policy of
the municipality that every effort shall be made to provide funds for disaster
emergencies.
   (B)   It is the Village Board’s intent that the first recourse shall be to
funds regularly appropriated to the agency. If the Mayor finds that the demands
placed upon these funds in coping with a particular disaster are unreasonably
great, and the Governor has proclaimed the municipality a disaster, he or she
may make application for funds from the State Disaster Relief Fund. If monies
available from the Fund are insufficient, and if the Mayor finds that other
sources of money to cope with the disaster are not available or are
insufficient, he or she shall issue a call for an immediate session of the
Village Board for the purpose of enacting ordinances as the Village Board may
deem necessary to transfer and expend monies appropriated for other purposes,
or borrow monies from the United States government or other public or private
sources. If less than a quorum of the members of the Village Board is capable
of convening in session to enact such ordinances for the transfer, expenditure
or loan of such monies, the Mayor is authorized to carry out those decisions
until such time as a quorum of the Village Board can convene.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to limit the
Mayor’s authority to apply for, administer and expend grants, gifts or payments
in aid of disaster prevention, preparedness, response or recovery.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-6)
§ 34.076 LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local disaster emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or
Village Board. If declared by the Mayor, it shall not be continued for a period
in excess of seven days except by or with the consent of the Village Board. Any
order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local disaster
emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity, and shall be filed
promptly with the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster emergency is to
activate any and all applicable local emergency operations plans and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   During a local disaster emergency, the Mayor may suspend the
provisions of any municipal ordinance prescribing procedures for the conduct of
municipal business, or the orders, rules and regulations of any municipal
agency, if strict compliance with the provisions of any ordinance, rule or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder or delay necessary action in coping
with the emergency, as authorized by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
Act, being 20 ILCS 3305, provided that, if the Village Board meets at such
time, he or she shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by
that body.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-7)
§ 34.077 TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES.
   The testing of disaster devices including outdoor warning sirens shall be
held only on the first Tuesday of each month at 10:00 a.m.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-8)
§ 34.078 MUTUAL AID ARRANGEMENTS BETWEEN POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The coordinator for emergency services and disaster operations may, in
collaboration with other public agencies within his or her immediate vicinity,
develop or cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements with other political
subdivisions, municipal corporations or bodies politic within this state for
reciprocal disaster response and recovery in case a disaster is too great to be
dealt with unassisted. The mutual aid shall not, however, be effective unless
and until approved by each of such political subdivisions, municipal
corporations or bodies politic as are parties thereto, in the manner provided
by law, and unless and until filed with and approved in writing by the state
director. Such arrangements shall be consistent with the state and local
emergency management operations plan and program, and in the event of such
disaster as described in §
34.072, it shall be the duty of each local and department for emergency
services and disaster operations to render assistance in accordance with the
provisions of such mutual aid arrangements.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-9)
§ 34.079 COMMUNICATIONS.
   The local Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall ascertain what means
exist for rapid and efficient communications in times of disaster emergencies.
The agency shall consider the desirability of supplementing these
communications resources or of integrating them into a comprehensive system or
network. In studying the character and feasibility of any system or its several
parts, the agency shall evaluate the possibility of multipurpose use thereof
for general municipal and local governmental purposes. The agency shall make
recommendations to the Mayor as appropriate.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-10)
§ 34.080 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the municipality, the agency or any member thereof or any person
acting at their direction, engaged in any emergency services and disaster
operations or disaster activities, while complying with or attempting to comply
with this code or any rule or regulations promulgated pursuant to this code is
liable for the death of or any injury to persons, or damage to property, as a
result of such activity. This section does not, however, affect the right of
any person to receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise be entitled
under this act under the Worker’s Compensation Act or the Worker’s Occupational
Diseases Act, or under any pension law, and this section does not affect the
right of any such person to receive any benefits or compensation under any Act
of Congress.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-11)
§ 34.081 PROFESSIONS, TRADES AND OCCUPATIONS.
   If such disaster as is described in §
34.072 occurs in this municipality and the services of persons who are
competent to practice any profession, trade or occupation are required in this
municipality to cope with the disaster situation and it appears that the number
of persons licensed or registered in this municipality to practice such
profession, trade or occupation may be insufficient for such purpose, then any
persons who are licensed elsewhere to practice any such profession, trade or
occupation may, if a member of another political subdivision rendering aid in
this municipality pursuant to the order of the head of that political
subdivision and upon the request of the municipality, or if otherwise requested
so to do by the Mayor or the coordinator of this municipality, during the time
the disaster condition continues, practice such profession, trade or occupation
in this municipality without being licensed or registered in this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-12)
§ 34.082 APPROPRIATIONS AND LEVY OF TAX.
   The Village Board may make appropriations for emergency services and
disaster operations in the manner provided by law for making appropriations for
the ordinary expenses of such political subdivision. The Village Board may also
levy for emergency services and disaster operations a tax not to exceed 0.05%
of the full, fair cash value as equalized or assessed by the Department of
Revenue on all taxable property in the municipality for the current year.
However, the amount collectible under such a levy shall in no event exceed
$0.25 per capita. The annual tax shall be in addition to and in excess of the
amount authorized to be levied for general corporate purposes.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-13)
§ 34.083 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS.
   Whenever the federal or state governments, or any agency or officer thereof,
or whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the municipality
services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds by way of gift or grant for
purposes of emergency management, the municipality, acting through the Mayor or
through its Village Board, may accept such offer and upon such acceptance the
Mayor or the Village Board may authorize any officer of the municipality to
receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds on behalf of the
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-14)
§ 34.084 ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall file a copy of every rule, regulation or order and any
amendment thereof made by him or her pursuant to the provisions of this code in
the office of the Municipal Clerk. No such rule, regulation or order, or any
amendment thereof, shall be effective until ten days after such filing;
provided, however, that upon the declaration of such a disaster emergency by
the Mayor as is described in §
34.076, the provision relating to the effective date of any rule, regulation
order or amendment issued pursuant to this code and during the state of such
disaster emergency, is abrogated, and said rule, regulation, order or amendment
shall become effective immediately upon being filed with the Municipal Clerk,
accompanied by a certificate stating the reason for the emergency.
   (B)   The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency established pursuant to
this subchapter, and the coordinator thereof, shall execute and enforce such
orders, rules and regulations as may be made by the Governor under authority of
the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act. The local Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency shall have available for inspection at its office all orders,
rules and regulations made by the Governor, or under this authority. The State
Emergency Management Agency shall furnish such orders, rules and regulations to
the agency.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-15)
§ 34.085 UTILIZATION OF EXISTING AGENCY, FACILITIES AND PERSONNEL.
   In carrying out the provisions of this code, the Mayor and the coordinator
of the emergency services and disaster agency are directed to utilize the
services, equipment, supplies and facilities of existing departments, offices
and agencies of the municipality to the maximum extent practicable, and the
officers and personnel of all such departments, offices and agencies are
directed, upon request, to cooperate with and extend such services and
facilities to the coordinator and the emergency services and disaster agency.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-16)
§ 34.086 NO PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A) Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege, or
otherwise permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of
such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual or impending disaster, or a mock or practice disaster response activity
together with his or her successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly
liable for negligently causing the death of, or injury to, any person on or
about such real estate or premises under such license, privilege or other
permission, or for negligently causing loss of, or damage to, the property of
such person.
   (B)   Any private person, firm or corporation and employees and agents of
such person, firm or corporation in the performance of a contract with, and
under the direction of, the municipality under the provisions of this code,
shall not be civilly liable for causing death of, or injury to, any person or
damage to any property except in the event of willful misconduct.
   (C)    Any private person, firm or corporation, and any employee or agency
of such person, firm or corporation, who renders assistance or advice at the
request of the municipality, shall not be civilly liable for causing the death
of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property except in the event of
willful misconduct. The immunities provided in this division (C) shall not
apply to any private person, firm or corporation, or to any employee or agent
of such person, firm or corporation whose act or omission caused in whole or in
part such actual or impending disaster and who would otherwise be liable
therefore.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-17)
§ 34.087 SUCCESSION.
   In the event of the death, absence from the municipality or other disability
of the Mayor preventing him or her from acting under this code or for any other
municipal purpose, and until the office is filled in the manner prescribed by
law, the coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency shall
succeed to the duties and responsibilities of the Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-18)
§ 34.088 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Board, by its annual appropriations ordinance, may provide for
the payment of the salary of the coordinator and such other office staff and
personnel as may be expressly provided for in the ordinance. Nothing herein
contained shall prohibit any member of the agency from receiving compensation
from the Illinois Emergency Management Agency under any provisions of that
agency.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-19)
§ 34.089 PERSONNEL OATH.
   Each person, whether compensated or noncompensated, who is appointed to
serve in any capacity in the municipal Emergency Service and Disaster Agency,
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, take an oath, in writing, before
the coordinator of the municipal Emergency Service and Disaster Agency before a
person authorized to administer oaths in this municipality, which oath shall be
filed with the coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, and
which oath shall be substantially as follows:
“I, ______________ do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or this State by force or violence; and that during such time I am
affiliated with the Village, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence.”
(1999 Code, § 30-3-20)
§ 34.090 EMERGENCY TERMINATION OR REDUCTION OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   Declaration of emergency condition: when in the judgment of the Mayor or
Village Board, as provided herein in §
34.076(A), a local disaster emergency requires the termination or reduction of
electrical service, the Mayor or Village Board shall forthwith declare in
writing the existence of the emergency condition and order the termination or
reduction.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
§ 34.105 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   It shall be the public policy of this village to adopt the National Incident
Management System (NIMS) concept of emergency planning and unified command. It
shall further be the policy of the village to train public officials
responsible for emergency management.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 9-12-2017)
CHAPTER 35: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
Gift Ban Code
   
35.01   Adoption of Act
   
35.02   Ethics Officer
   
35.03   State Legislative Ethics Commission; complaints
   
35.04   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act
   
35.05   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of State Gift Ban Act
Ethics Act
   
35.20   Officials and Employees Ethics Act
Expenses
   
35.35   Expenses; reimbursement
   
35.36   Travel expense control
Whistleblower Protection Policy
   
35.50   Purpose
   
35.51   Definitions
   
35.52   Protections
   
35.53   Duties of an Auditing Official
   
35.54   Duties of an employee
   
35.55   Defend Trade Secrets Act compliance
   
35.56   Amendments to policy
   
35.57   Employee acknowledgment
GIFT BAN CODE
§ 35.01 ADOPTION OF ACT.
   (A)   The State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10) is hereby adopted as required
by § 83 of the Act (5 ILCS 430/10).
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the village. All non-salaried appointed or elected officials
are exempted from the Act and the provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 99-107, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 35.02 ETHICS OFFICER.
   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by § 35 of the
Act (5 ILCS 430/10), the President shall appoint an individual to serve as the
“Ethics Officer” of the Village. The Ethics Officer’s duties shall be as
provided in § 35 of the Act.
(1999 Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 99-107, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 35.03 STATE LEGISLATIVE ETHICS COMMISSION; COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints for violations of the Act and this subchapter shall be filed
with the state legislative ethics committee (created by § 45(a)(6) of the Act).
(1999 Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 99-107, passed 6-8-1999))
§ 35.04 FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   Any amendment to the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10) that becomes
effective after the passage of this subchapter shall be incorporated into this
subchapter by reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation and
acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this subchapter
by reference without formal action by corporate authorities of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-5-4) (Ord. 99-107, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 35.05 FUTURE DECLARATION OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   If the State Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS
430/10) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this subchapter shall be
repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not
subject to any further appeals or rehearings. The subchapter shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village if
the Act is found unconstitutional by the State Supreme Court.
   (B)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act (5
ILCS 430/10) unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the
remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the
remainder of the Act as adopted by this subchapter shall remain in full force
and effect; however, that part of this subchapter relating to the part of the
Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-5-5) (Ord. 99-107, passed 6-8-1999)
ETHICS ACT
§ 35.20 OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5 ILCS
430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5
ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this Section)
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the State Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-7-1) (Ord. 05/11/04-1, passed 5-11-2004)
EXPENSES
§ 35.35 EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   Each member of the corporate authorities may receive reimbursement from the
municipality for expenses incurred by the member in attending committee
meetings of the corporate authorities or for other expenses incurred by the
member in the course of performing official duties.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-31)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15(B)
§ 35.36 TRAVEL EXPENSE CONTROL.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “Village
Local Government Travel Expense Control Ordinance”.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY. The Village of Moweaqua, Shelby and Christian
Counties, Illinois.
      PERSON. Any individual, employee, board member, partnership, co-
partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency or other legal entity, or
their legal representative, agent or assigns of the village.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly, or indirectly, incident to official
travel by employees and officers of a local public agency or by wards or
charges of a local public agency involving reimbursement to travelers or direct
payment to private agencies providing transportation or related services.
   (C)   Limitations of expenses. Travel, meals and lodging expenses are
limited to the following acts or events:
      (1)   Conferences of the Illinois Municipal League;
      (2)   Purchase of property, real or personal, to be used and owned by the
local public agency;
      (3)   Training of local public agency employees, board members and agents
of the local public agency; and
      (4)   Any other act or event approved, prior to the act or event, by a
majority vote of the board of trustees of the local public agency.
   (D)   Maximum allowable reimbursement. The Village President may approve all
travel reimbursements specifically authorized by this section, provided that
all documents required of division (E) below are submitted. The maximum
allowable reimbursement for travel, meal and lodging expenses shall be limited
to $200 per day per person, not to exceed two consecutive days without the
prior approval of the Board of Trustees by a majority vote.
   (E)   Required documents. Before any expense for travel, meals or lodging
may be approved under divisions (C) and (D) above, the following minimum
documentation must first be submitted, in writing, to the Board of Trustees or
the Village President, whichever shall be applicable:
      (1)   An estimate or actual cost of travel, meals or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of cost of travel, meals, or lodging if the
expenses have already been incurred;
      (2)   The name of the individual or person who received or is requesting
the travel, meal or lodging expense;
      (3)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal or lodging expense; and
      (4)   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   (F)   Court costs. The village is entitled to recover court costs from any
non-prevailing party for any and all actions brought to enforce any fine or
penalty or contesting any fine or penalty brought pursuant to this section.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-31.1)
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY
§ 35.50 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Village of Moweaqua ("village") is committed to adhering to lawful
and ethical behavior in all of its activities and requires its officials,
employees, and contractors to act in accordance with all applicable laws,
regulations, and policies. Village officials, employees, and contractors shall
observe the highest ethical standards in conducting their duties and
responsibilities on behalf of the village.
   (B)   This whistleblower policy ("policy") has been drafted to establish
policies and procedures to uphold the foregoing standards: prevent, detect, and
correct improper activities; encourage each village official, employee and
contractor ("reporting individual") to report what he or she in good faith
believes to be a material violation of law or policy; facilitate resolution of
reports received under this policy; and protect reporting individuals from
retaliatory action.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 35.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUDITING OFFICIAL. Any elected, appointed or employed individual, by
whatever name, in the village whose duties may include: receiving, registering
and investigating complaints and information concerning misconduct,
inefficiency and waste within the village; investigating the performance of
officers, employees, functions and programs; and promoting economy, efficiency,
effectiveness and integrity in the administration of the programs and
operations of the village.
      (1)   The Auditing Official shall be the President, until replaced by
appropriate action taken by the village.
      (2)   If the village does not have a designated Auditing Official, the
Auditing Official is by default the Shelby County State's Attorney.
   EMPLOYEE. Anyone employed by the village, whether in a permanent or
temporary position, including full-time, part-time and intermittent workers.
EMPLOYEE also includes members of appointed boards or commissions, whether paid
or unpaid. EMPLOYEE also includes persons who have been terminated because of
any report or complaint submitted under 50 ILCS 105/4.1. For purposes of this
policy only, EMPLOYEE includes contractors providing services to the village
under a duly formed and accepted contract.
   IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION.
      (1)   Any action by an employee of the village; an appointed member of a
board, commission or committee; or an elected official of the village that is:
undertaken in violation of a federal or state law or local ordinance; is an
abuse of authority; violates the public's trust or expectation of their
conduct; is of substantial and specific danger to the public's health or
safety; or is a gross waste of public funds. The action need not be within the
scope of the employee's, elected official's, board member's, commission
member's or committee member's official duties to be subject to a claim of
improper governmental action.
      (2)   IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION does not include the village's
personnel actions, including, but not limited to employee grievances;
complaints; appointments; or promotions, transfers, assignments, reassignments,
reinstatements, restorations, reemployment, performance evaluations, reductions
in pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands or violations of
collective bargaining agreements, except to the extent that the action amounts
to retaliation.
   RETALIATE, RETALIATION or RETALIATORY ACTION. Any adverse change in an
employee's employment status or the terms and conditions of employment that
results from an employee's protected activity under 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
RETALIATORY ACTION includes, but is not limited to, denial of adequate staff to
perform duties; frequent staff changes; frequent and undesirable office
changes; refusal to assign meaningful work; unsubstantiated letters of
reprimand or unsatisfactory performance evaluations; demotion; reduction in
pay; denial of promotion; transfer or reassignment; suspension or dismissal; or
other disciplinary action made because of an employee's protected activity
under 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
   WHISTLEBLOWER. An employee, of the village who:
      (1)   Reports an improper governmental action as defined under 50 ILCS
105/4.1;
      (2)   Cooperates with an investigation by an Auditing Official related to
a report of improper governmental action; or
      (3)   Testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an improper
governmental action.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 35.52 PROTECTIONS.
   The village provides whistleblower protections in regard to: (A)
confidentiality and (B) prohibiting retaliation.
   (A)   The confidentiality of a whistleblower will be maintained to the
extent allowable by law, however, a whistleblower's identity may be disclosed
to conduct a thorough investigation, to comply with the law, and to observe an
accused individual's legal rights. A whistleblower may waive confidentiality in
writing.
   (B)   The village, its officials, employees, and contractors will not
retaliate against a whistleblower. This policy includes, but is not limited to,
protection from retaliation in the form of an adverse employment action such as
termination, compensation decreases, or poor work assignments and threats of
physical harm. Any whistleblowers who believe they are being retaliated against
must submit a written report to the Auditing Official within 60 days of gaining
knowledge of the retaliatory action. The right of a whistleblower for
protection against retaliation does not include immunity for any personal
wrongdoing that is alleged and investigated. Any village official or employee
who retaliates against someone who has reported a violation in good faith is
subject to discipline, up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 35.53 DUTIES OF AN AUDITING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Auditing Official shall establish written processes and procedures
consistent with the terms of this policy and best practices for conducting
investigations and managing complaints filed under 50 ILCS 105/4.1. Each
Auditing Official shall investigate and dispose of reports of improper
governmental action in accordance with these processes and procedures, and all
other provisions of 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
   (B)   Within five business days following the submission of a report
concerning a violation or suspected violation, the Auditing Official shall
contact the reporting individual to acknowledge receipt of the report. All
reports shall be promptly investigated, with appropriate and timely corrective
action taken, if warranted, based on the results of the investigation.
   (C)   Within five business days following receipt of a whistleblower report,
the Auditing Official shall notify the President and Village Board of the
report. Within five days of concluding the investigation, the Auditing Official
shall report his or her findings and recommended corrective action to the
President in instances where the employee is subject to discipline and
termination by the President, and to the Village Board in all other instances.
   (D)   If the report includes allegations against the Auditing Official, the
Auditing Official shall not participate in the consideration of the report, the
investigation or the determination of what, if any, actions should be taken in
regard to the report. If the report includes allegations against the Auditing
Official, the village will ask the Shelby County State's Attorney to evaluate
the report, conduct any investigation, and make corrective action
recommendations.
   (E)   Auditing Officials may reinstate, reimburse for lost wages or expenses
incurred, promote or provide some other form of restitution to those subject to
retaliation.
   (F)   In instances where an Auditing Official determines restitution will
not suffice, the Auditing Official may make their investigation findings
available to the employee (and his or her agent) subjected to retaliation for
pursuing other legal remedies.
   (G)   Auditing Officials are responsible for reading, familiarizing
themselves with, and complying with all requirements of 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
   (H)   The Auditing Official must provide each employee a written summary or
a complete copy of 50 ILCS 105/4.1 upon the employee's commencement of
employment and at least once each year of employment. At the same time, the
employee shall also receive a copy of the written processes and procedures for
reporting improper governmental actions from the applicable Auditing Official.
   (I)   Pursuant with all laws, regulations and ordinances, the Auditing
Official must keep a record of the report, investigation, notes, conclusions,
and other relevant records.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 35.54 DUTIES OF AN EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   All employees shall comply with this policy and shall report material
violations or suspected violations of law or policy.
   (B)   All reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be promptly
submitted to the Auditing Official who is responsible for investigating and
coordinating corrective action.
   (C)   If an employee has knowledge of, or a concern of, improper
governmental action, the employee shall as soon as practicable make a written
report of the activity to the Auditing Official. The employee must exercise
sound judgment when making a report to avoid baseless allegations. Anyone
filing a report concerning a violation or suspected violation shall do so only
in good faith and with reasonable grounds to believe the information reported
indicates a violation. Any allegations later shown to be unsubstantiated or
false, if proven to have been made maliciously or knowingly (i.e., with
knowledge or reckless disregard), shall be viewed as a serious disciplinary
offense. An employee who intentionally files a false report of wrongdoing will
be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
   (D)   The whistleblower is not responsible for investigating the activity or
for determining fault or corrective measures; a designated Auditing Official is
charged with these responsibilities.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 35.55 DEFEND TRADE SECRETS ACT COMPLIANCE.
   Immunity from liability for confidential disclosure of a trade secret to the
government or in a court filing:
   (A)   Immunity. An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable
under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade
secret that: (A) is made (i) in confidence to a federal, state or local
government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and,
(ii) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation
of law; or, (B) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or
other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.
   (B)   Use of trade secret information in anti-retaliation lawsuit. An
individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a
suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the
individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the
individual: (A) files any document containing the trade secret under seal; and,
(B) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. (18
U.S.C. § 1833).
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 35.56 AMENDMENTS TO POLICY.
   Any substantive change to this policy shall require the approval of the
Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 35.57 EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   Employees shall sign a written acknowledgement they received, read and
understand this policy. Employees shall submit that acknowledgement to the
Auditing Official or other designated official of the village. The form, which
can be found as Exhibit A attached to Ord. 2021-16, satisfies the
acknowledgement requirement.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Investment Policy
   
36.001   Policy
   
36.002   Scope
   
36.003   Prudence
   
36.004   Objective
   
36.005   Delegation of authority
   
36.006   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
36.007   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
36.008   Authorized and suitable investments
   
36.009   Collateralization
   
36.010   Safekeeping and custody
   
36.011   Diversification
   
36.012   Maximum maturities
   
36.013   Internal control
   
36.014   Performance standards
   
36.015   Reporting
   
36.016   Marking to market
   
36.017   Investment policy adoption
Taxation; Generally
   
36.030   Corporate rate
   
36.031   Police tax
   
36.032   Audit tax
   
36.033   F.I.C.A. tax
   
36.034   IMRF
   
36.035   General liability
   
36.036   Revenues from Illinois Video Gaming Act and Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Rate
   
36.050   Definitions
   
36.051   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
36.052   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax rate
   
36.053   Collection, enforcement and administration of simplified municipal
telecommunications tax rate fees
   
36.054   Compliance with other laws
   
36.055   Existing franchises and licenses
   
36.056   Enforcement
Municipal Utility Tax
   
36.070   Tax imposed
   
36.071   Exceptions
   
36.072   Additional taxes
   
36.073   Definitions
   
36.074   Reports to municipality
   
36.075   Credit for over payment
Electric Utility Tax
   
36.090   Tax imposed
   
36.091   Type of customer; rate effective
   
36.092   Sunset clause; gross receipts utility tax
   
36.093   Effective date for subchapter
   
36.094   Exceptions
   
36.095   Additional taxes
   
36.096   Collection
   
36.097   Reports to village
   
36.098   Credit for overpayment
Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
   
36.110   Conformance
   
36.111   Fees
   
36.112   Required reports
   
36.113   Recovery of monies
   
36.114   Unlawful operation
Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility
   
36.125   Title
   
36.126   Scope
   
36.127   Definitions
   
36.128   Notices
   
36.129   Late payment
   
36.130   Payment
   
36.131   Certain credits and refunds
   
36.132   Audit procedure
   
36.133   Appeal
   
36.134   Hearing
   
36.135   Interest
   
36.136   Abatement
   
36.137   Installment contracts
   
36.138   Statute of limitations
   
36.139   Voluntary disclosures
   
36.140   Publication of tax ordinances
   
36.141   Internal review procedure
   
36.142   Application
 
   
36.999   Penalty
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 36.001 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the village and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-1) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.002 SCOPE.
   This policy includes all public funds of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.003 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-3) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.004 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality. Conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements;
      (2)   Safety. Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity. Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
      (4)   Yield. Attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the village’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-4) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.005 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Treasurer who may establish written procedures for the
operation of the investment program.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.006 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-6) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.007 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   The Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of
approved security brokers/dealers selected by creditworthiness.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-7) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.008 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in state
statutes regarding the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund
type being invested.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-8) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.009 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of collateral witnessed
by a written agreement and held at an independent- third party institution in
the name of the village.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-9) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.010 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village, shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third party custodian
designated by the Treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written
custodial agreement.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-10) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.011 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The village shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based
on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in and length of maturity.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-11) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.012 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than two years from the date of purchase.
   (B)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding two years if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-12) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.013 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the village
are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall
be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-13) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.014 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this policy. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of
return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio
performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity
and credit quality as the portfolio maintained by the Illinois Public
Treasurer’s Investment Pool (IPTIP).
(1999 Code, § 1-6-14) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.015 REPORTING.
   The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least monthly. The
report should be provided to the Village Board and available upon request. The
report should be in a format suitable for review by the general public. An
annual report should also be provided to the Village Board. A statement of the
market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the Village Board quarterly.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-15) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.016 MARKING TO MARKET.
   A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the
Board of Trustees quarterly.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-16) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 36.017 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   The investment policy shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees. The policy
shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the Treasurer and any modifications
made thereto must be approved by the Board of Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-17) (Ord. 99-114, passed 11-9-1999)
TAXATION; GENERALLY
§ 36.030 CORPORATE RATE.
   The maximum rate for general corporate purposes of the village be and the
same is hereby established at a rate of 0.25%.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1
§ 36.031 POLICE TAX.
   The maximum rate for police protection purposes of the village be and the
same is hereby established at a rate of 0.075%.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-3
§ 36.032 AUDIT TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a “municipal auditing tax” upon all taxable
property in the village which will produce an amount which will equal the cost
of all auditing for the village.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-8-8
§ 36.033 F.I.C.A. TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the federal Social Security
System.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.
§ 36.034 IMRF.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/7-132 et seq.
§ 36.035 GENERAL LIABILITY.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
whatever rate is necessary to purchase general liability insurance for the
village.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-6)
§ 36.036 REVENUES FROM ILLINOIS VIDEO GAMING ACT AND CANNABIS REGULATION AND
TAX ACT.
   All revenues received from the Illinois Video Gaming Act and Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act shall be used for new sidewalks, maintaining street
signs, mowing, planting new trees, maintaining tile drainage, maintaining
village alleys and towards equipment purchases. Said funds shall be held in an
interest-bearing account and shall be used only with two-thirds approval of the
Village Board. All such sums may be deposited in the same account used for
revenues received from the tax imposed by § 36.070(A).
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-8-2021)
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX RATE
§ 36.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.
      (1)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office
channel provided within the village.
      (2)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under:
            1.   The fee imposed by this subchapter;
            2.   Additional charges added to a purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221
or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act;
            3.   Amounts collected under 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17;
            4.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
            5.   911 surcharges; or
            6.   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside
the village;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the village;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that the charges between the parent
corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries,
represent expense allocation between the corporations and not the generation of
profit other than a regulatory required profit for the corporation rendering
such services;
         (g)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
         (i)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE OR ANY LIKE TERM.
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within the State of Illinois,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business, or any agent
or other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here, permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the customer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the location in
Illinois where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, typewriter service, computer exchange services,
private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value-added services
in which computer-processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provisions and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable service through a cable system as defined in the
Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.) as now or hereafter
amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system
fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined in the Rules
of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. §§ 76.1550 et seq.) as now
or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER, RETAILER or CARRIED. Includes every person
engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as
defined in this section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
in the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile services, personal
wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(Pub. L. No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 331(c)(7), as now or hereafter amended,
including all commercial mobile radio services, and paging services.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-1) (Ord. 98-103, passed 3-10-1998)
§ 36.051 REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider as defined by this subchapter shall
register with the village within 30 days after the effective date of this
subchapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the village, provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
36.053(C) shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
36.053(C), as the case may be, to the village within 30 days from the date of
the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return on
file with the village.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-2) (Ord. 98-103, passed 3-10-1998)
§ 36.052 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX RATE.
   (A)   A village simplified municipal telecommunications tax is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 4% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailers to service addresses within
the village for telecommunications originating or received in the village.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the simplified municipal telecommunications
tax authorized in this subchapter, the village simplified municipal
telecommunications tax authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or
compensation for the use of all public rights-of-way within the village by
telecommunications retailers. Imposition of the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax provided under this subchapter does not, however, serve
as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or imposition of any fees,
otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The village telecommunications simplified municipal telecommunications
tax authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as
set forth in §
36.053.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-3) (Ord. 98-103, passed 3-10-1998; Ord. 09/17/2002-1, passed
9-17-2002; Ord. 11/12/2002-2, passed 11-12-2002)
§ 36.053 COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX RATE FEES.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village simplified
municipal telecommunications tax attributable to that customer’s service
address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the village the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to
the village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village simplified municipal telecommunications tax collected by it to
reimburse itself for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the village, which shall
contain such information as the village may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any simplified municipal telecommunications tax required to be
collected pursuant to this subchapter and any such simplified municipal
telecommunications tax collected by such telecommunications retailer shall
constitute a debt owed by the telecommunications retailer to the village. The
charge imposed under division (A) above by the telecommunications retailer
pursuant to this subchapter shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the
telecommunications retailer who provides such services until paid and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such services.
   (E)   (1)   If it shall appear that an amount of simplified municipal
telecommunications tax has been paid that was not due under the provisions of
this subchapter, whether as a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law,
then such amount shall be credited against any simplified municipal
telecommunications tax due, or to become due, under this subchapter, from the
telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous payment; provided, however,
the village may request, and telecommunications retailer shall provide, written
substantiation for such credit.
      (2)   However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless:
         (a)   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made
by the village within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
         (b)   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this subchapter by telecommunications retailers
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
      (1)   Gross charges for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      (2)   Gross receipts for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2;
      (3)   Gross charges for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17; and
      (4)   Gross revenue for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities in § 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this
subchapter to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly
accounted to the village for the village simplified municipal
telecommunications tax. Any underpayment of the amount of the village
simplified municipal telecommunications tax due to the village by the
telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village plus 5% of the total
amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs incurred by
the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed 5% of the total
amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. Said sum shall be paid to
the village within 21 days after the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   (H)   The village, or its designee, may promulgate such further or
additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to time
and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant
to §
36.051 of such regulations.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-4) (Ord. 98-103, passed 3-10-1998)
§ 36.054 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall excuse any person or entity from
obligations imposed under any law, including but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of- way, including standards relating to freestanding
towers and other structures upon the public rights-of- way, as provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this subchapter
concerning uses or structures not located on, over or within the right-of-way.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-5) (Ord. 98-103, passed 3-10-1998)
§ 36.055 EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
subchapter, regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid
according to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-6) (Ord. 98-103, passed 3-10-1998)
§ 36.056 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-7) (Ord. 98-103, passed 3-10-1998)
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
§ 36.070 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of
electricity, at the rate of 4% of the gross receipts from such business
originating within the corporate limits of the village; funds generated from
the 4% of the gross receipts of the business of transmitting messages by means
of electricity shall be used for new sidewalks, maintaining street signs,
mowing, planting new trees, maintaining tile drainage, maintaining village
alleys and towards equipment purchases; and said funds shall be held in an
interest-bearing account and shall be used only with two-thirds approval of the
Village Board of Trustees; and
   (B)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing
or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the
village, and not for resale, at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts therefrom;
said funds generated from the 3% tax on gross receipts of the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas shall be placed into a fund
and used towards major projects, purchases and expenses of the project; and
said funds shall be disbursed upon two-thirds approval of the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-1) (Ord. 91-108, passed 10-21-1991; Ord. 91-108B, passed 12-
2-1991; Ord. 11/12/13-2, passed 11-12-2013; Ord. 2015-7, passed 8-11-2015; Ord.
2016-4, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 36.071 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with respect
to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which
such business may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United
States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any person engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas or engaged in the business
of transmitting messages, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of this section for such transactions as are or may become
subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation
Tax Act authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, nor shall any tax authorized by this
section be imposed upon any person engaged in the business unless such tax is
imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in
businesses of the same class in the municipality, whether privately or
municipally owned or operated.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-2) (Ord. 91-108B, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 36.072 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products
or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for
the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business or for their
respective franchise rights.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-3) (Ord. 91-108B, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 36.073 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas for use or
consumption and not for resale, as the case may be; and for all services
rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or
otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every kind and
material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said messages
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity, supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person to person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration, by such persons
to other persons for the transmission of messages.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-4) (Ord. 91-108B, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 36.074 REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   On or before October 31, 1998, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the Village Treasurer for the month of October, 1998, stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the Village Clerk for the calendar month preceding
the month in which the return is made.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the Village Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-5) (Ord. 91-108B, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 36.075 CREDIT FOR OVER PAYMENT.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-6) (Ord. 91-108B, passed 12-2-1991)
ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
§ 36.090 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges.
   (A)   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase
at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the village at
the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
First 2,000 KWH     0.262 cents per KWH
Next 48,000 KWH     0.172 cents per KWH
Next 50,000 KWH     0.155 cents per KWH
Next 400,000 KWH    0.150 cents per KWH
Next 500,000 KWH    0.146 cents per KWH
Next 2,000,000 KWH  0.138 cents per KWH
Next 2,000,000 KWH  0.135 cents per KWH
Next 5,000,000 KWH  0.133 cents per KWH
Next 10,000,000 KWH 0.131 cents per KWH
Over 20,000,000 KWH 0.129 cents per KWH
 
   (B)   The tax rates set forth in the preceding table will be used at least
through December 31, 2008, are proportional to the rates enumerated in 65 ILCS
5/8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561), and do not exceed the revenue that
could have been collected during 1997 using the rates enumerated in 65 ILCS 5/
8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561).
(1999 Code, § 36-4-1) (Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 36.091 TYPE OF CUSTOMER; RATE EFFECTIVE.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth in §
36.090 shall be effective:
   (A)   On August 1, 1999 for residential customers; and
   (B)   On the earlier of:
      (1)   The last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or
      (2)   The date of the first bill issued pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/16-104,
for nonresidential customers.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-2) (Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 36.092 SUNSET CLAUSE; GROSS RECEIPTS UTILITY TAX.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, Ord. 91-108B (commonly known as the gross
receipts utility tax) shall specifically remain in effect:
   (A)   For receipts attributable to residential customers, until July 31,
1999; and
   (B)   For receipts attributable to nonresidential customers, the earlier of:
      (1)   Through the last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or
      (2)   The date of the first bill issued to such nonresidential customer
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-3) (Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 36.093 EFFECTIVE DATE FOR SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of §
36.090 shall not be effective until August 1,1999.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-4) (Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 36.094 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with
respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to
which the business or privileges may not, under the Constitution and statutes
of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any
political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas, water or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this subchapter for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act as authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax
authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same
rate upon all persons engaged in business of the same class in the village,
whether privately or village owned or operated, or exercising the same
privilege within the village.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-5)
   (B)   The municipal accounts of the village and real estate owned by the
village are exempt from this municipal utility tax.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-5A)
(Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999; Ord. 2015-8, passed 8-11-2015)
§ 36.095 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-6) (Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 36.096 COLLECTION.
   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the purchaser
by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is
recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this subchapter and
any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a
debt owed to the village by such person delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such
tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons delivering
electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount
equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity for the
expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing
returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon request. If
the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the purchaser,
then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the village in
the manner prescribed by the village. On or before the last day of each month,
persons delivering electricity shall make a return to the village for the
preceding month and shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the village
the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-6) (Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 36.097 REPORTS TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not
paid the tax imposed by this subchapter to a person delivering electricity as
set forth in §
36.090 and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax shall make a
return to the Village Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-8) (Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 36.098 CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-9) (Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999)
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 36.110 CONFORMANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association, not incorporated
under the laws of the state to engage in the village in effecting fire
insurance or to transact any business of fire insurance in this village, while
in default by not fully complying with any of the requirements of this
subchapter, and until such requirements shall have been fully complied with;
but this provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or association
from the payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-1) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.111 FEES.
   Any such corporation, company or association not incorporated under the laws
of the state, which is engaged in the village in effecting fire insurance,
shall pay the Village Treasurer for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
Fire Department of the village, a sum of money equal in amount to 2% per annum
of the gross receipts received as premiums upon fire insurance policies by any
and all agents of such corporation, company, association during the year ending
on July 1 in each year, for any insurance effected or agreed to be effected on
property located in the village by or with such corporation, company or
association during such year.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-2)
§ 36.112 REQUIRED REPORTS.
   Every person acting in the village as agent for or on behalf of any such
corporation, company or association shall, on or before July 15 of each and
every year, render the Village Clerk a full, true, and just account verified by
oath of all premiums upon fire insurance policies which, during the year ending
July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him or her, or by
some other person for him or her, in his or her behalf of any such corporation,
company or association on property located in the village. Such agent shall
also, at the time of rendering the aforesaid report, pay to the Village
Treasurer the sum of money for which company, corporation or association
represented by him or her is chargeable, by virtue of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-3)
§ 36.113 RECOVERY OF MONIES.
   (A)   The sum of money for which such company, corporation or association is
so chargeable may be recovered of it, or its agents or agent, by an action in
the name of and for the use of the village as for money had and received.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be held to exempt any person,
corporation, company, association from indictment and conviction under the
provisions of Article 11, Division 10 of the Illinois Municipal Code entitled
“Foreign Fire Insurance Company Fees”, further described in 65 ILCS 5/11-10-
1 et seq.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-4)
§ 36.114 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   No insurance agent in the village shall have any insurance business or
dealings with any company, association, or corporation not incorporated under
the laws of this state, which shall be in default for not reporting or making
payments as hereinbefore provided, until it shall have complied with all the
requirements of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-5)
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
§ 36.125 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance”.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.126 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village’s procedures in
connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and administered taxes
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.127 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et
seq.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The village’s President and Board of Trustees.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the village other than simplified
municipal telecommunications taxes
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The village’s Treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator’s stead. The
Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Moweaqua, Shelby County, Illinois,
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.128 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.129 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.130 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.131 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.132 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within, 30
days after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the Tax Administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.133 APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a
taxpayer upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of
tax due, a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any
tax.
      (2)   The notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   The reason for the assessment;
         (b)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         (c)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         (d)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund
and collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing The written protest and
petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within 45
days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer The hearing shall be scheduled for a date within
14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing, unless the
taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.134 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
36.133, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.135 INTEREST.
   (A)   Generally. In the event a determination has been made that a tax is
due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   (B)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax, to be 7% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.136 ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.137 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local Administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.138 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The village, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing.
   (B)   The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of
limitations shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in
which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in
which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax
return was filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.139 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURES.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the under paid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.140 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.141 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.142 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the village’s tax ordinances to the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this ordinance shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 02/13/01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of §§
36.050 through
36.056 shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the general penalty
provisions in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-7)
   (C)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §§
36.070 through
36.075 shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and in addition, shall be liable in a civil
action for the amount of tax due.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-7)
   (D)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §§
36.090 through
36.098 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 and in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-10)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
36.110 through
36.114 shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-6)
   (F)   In §§
36.125 through
36.142, if a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax
required to be shown as due on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment
penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the
time or manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the
village issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a
failure to file penalty shall be assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for
the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be filed.
A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty
is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Ord. 98-103, passed 3-10-1998; Ord. 99-104, passed 5-11-1999; Ord. 02/13/01-1,
passed 2-13-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   RATES AND REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER SYSTEM
      
53.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
54.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
Department Established
   
50.01   Department established
   
50.02   Water and Sewer Committee
   
50.03   Superintendent
   
50.04   Duties of the Superintendent
DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED
§ 50.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be an executive department of the village known as the
Waterworks and Sewage Department. It shall include the Water and Sewer
Superintendent and employees of the Department. The designated office shall be
the Village Hall.
(1999 Code, § 38-1-1)
§ 50.02 WATER AND SEWER COMMITTEE.
   The Village Board Standing Committee on Water and Sewer shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Departments. It shall ascertain the
condition and needs thereof; and shall, from time to time, report the same to
the Mayor and Village Board so that a full understanding thereof shall be had;
and generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the
Departments.
(1999 Code, § 38-1-2)
§ 50.03 SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Departments shall be subject to
the supervision of the Mayor and the Water and Sewer Committee and shall be
hereinafter be referred to as the “Superintendent”. The Superintendent shall be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the Village Board
and shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. He
or she shall receive such salary as may be provided by the annual budget of the
Village Board at the time of his or her appointment.
(1999 Code, § 38-1-3)
§ 50.04 DUTIES OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent shall exercise general management and control over his or
her respective Department.
   (A)   He or she shall supervise over and be responsible for the conduct and
performance of all employees of the Department as a department head in
accordance with the personnel code, if any.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the village’s water system and sewerage system as provided in this code of
ordinances.
   (C)   He or she shall be the custodian of all vehicles, equipment,
structures and property provided by the village for the use of his or her
Department.
   (D)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this Title V and make such
inspections, measurements and tests as necessary for that purpose.
   (E)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or
her by the provisions of this code of ordinances or by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 38-1-4)
CHAPTER 51: RATES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Contract for utility services
   
51.02   Consumer lists
   
51.03   Liability for charges
   
51.04   Estimated charge
   
51.05   No free utility service
   
51.06   Utility deposit
   
51.07   Water and sewer service required for occupied residential dwelling
structures
Utility Rates Generally
   
51.20   Building unit defined
   
51.21   Revenues
   
51.22   Accounts
   
51.23   Notice of rates
   
51.23   Access to records
   
51.24   Appeals
Water Rates
   
51.35   Water tap-on fees
   
51.36   Water rates
   
51.37   Requested shut-off
Wastewater Service Charges
   
51.50   Basis for wastewater service charges
   
51.51   Measurement of flow
   
51.52   User charge system
   
51.53   Computation of surcharge
   
51.54   Computation of wastewater service charge
   
51.55   [Intentionally omitted]
   
51.56   Sewer tap-in fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONTRACT FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Customer accepts service. The rates, rules and regulations contained
in this chapter shall constitute and be considered a part of the contract with
every person, company or corporation who is supplied with water and sewer
services from the waterworks and sewerage system and every person, company or
corporation, hereinafter called a “customer” who accepts and uses village water
and sewer services shall be held to have consented to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Not liable for interrupted service. The Department shall endeavor at
all times to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service, however, in
case the supply of service shall be interrupted or irregular or defective or
fail from causes beyond its control or through ordinary negligence of
employees, servants or agents, the Departments shall not be liable therefor.
   (C)   Using services without paying. Any person using utility services from
the village without paying therefor, or who shall be found guilty of breaking
the seal of any meter or appurtenances, or bypassing any meter, shall be guilty
of violating this code of ordinances, and upon conviction, shall be fined a sum
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Destroying property. Any person found guilty of defacing, tampering,
injuring or destroying, or in any manner, limiting the use or availability of
any meter or any property of the waterworks system and sewerage system, or
erecting signs on the property of the Department without permission shall, upon
conviction of such act, be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Service obtained by fraud. All contracts for water and sewer services
shall be made in the name of the head of the household, firm or corporation
using the established spelling of that person’s or firm’s name. Attempts to
obtain service by the use of other names, different spellings or by
substituting other persons or firms shall be considered a subterfuge and
service shall be denied. If service has been discontinued because of nonpayment
of bills, or any unpaid obligation and service has again been obtained through
subterfuge, misrepresentation or fraud, that service shall be promptly
disconnected and the whole or such part of the advanced payment as may be
necessary to satisfy the unpaid obligation shall be retained by the village and
credited to the appropriate account.
   (F)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the Department be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month,
the following billing shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month.
   (G)   Request to discontinue service. Services shall have been deemed to
have been supplied to any property connected to the water and sewer systems
during a month unless the customer notifies the village prior to the first day
of the new billing month in which the services are to be discontinued.
   (H)   Billing; utility shut-off: hearing.
      (1)   All bills for utility services shall be due and payable upon
presentation. If a bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, a
penalty of $10 shall be added thereto. This penalty shall be in addition to the
charges heretofore established for the utility services.
      (2)   Any customer who fails to pay the utility bills within 15 days
after the fifteenth of the month shall have the utility services disconnected
after a written notice by the Water Clerk has been mailed by first-class mail
to the customer, affording the customer an opportunity for a hearing. The
aforesaid notice shall be mailed to the customer 20 days after billing,
specifically advising the customer of the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the customer and amount of the bill;
         (b)   The date, time and location of the hearing to be held;
         (c)   The customer has a right to be heard and to present evidence in
his or her behalf if he or she does not agree with the bill;
         (d)   If the customer fails to appear at the hearing, the consumer’s
utility service shall be terminated without further proceedings; and
         (e)   The date of termination.
      (3)   The time, date and location of the hearing shall be determined by
the Mayor, the Water Clerk, the Superintendent of Water or the Treasurer. One
of these officials shall preside over the hearing and shall make a final
determination as to the rights of the consumer and the village based on the
information received at the hearing.
      (4)   The customer shall be notified within two working days of the
decision rendered by the Hearing Officer. If the service is to be discontinued,
a date and time will be set out in the notice to terminate the service or
services of the customer. Notice of the Hearing Officer’s decision shall be
made by first-class mail.
      (5)   If the Hearing Officer decides in favor of the village, the village
shall have the right to discontinue the customer’s utility services. Should the
customer fail to appear at the hearing, or should the notice be returned non-
accepted, then the village shall also have the right to terminate the
customer’s utility services without further proceedings.
      (6)   If the customer who has been notified for nonpayment of utility
bills is not the owner of record, then the village shall notify the owner of
the property by first-class mail.
      (7)   Once utility services have been disconnected the same shall not be
again connected or used until all delinquent accounts and bills of service are
paid in full, including a fee of $25 for each connection of such utility
services, plus expenses incurred in the reconnecting of the utility services.
Arrangements may be made with the Water and Sewer Superintendent and the Water
and Sewer Committee to reconnect the services.
   (I)   Lien notice.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for utility services remains unpaid for 60 days
after it has been rendered, the Clerk shall file with the County Recorder of
Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice
that the municipality claims a lien for this amount to the period covered by
the bill.
      (2)   If the consumer of utility services whose bill is unpaid is not the
owner of the premises and the Village Clerk has notice of this, then notice
shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his or her address is known to
the Clerk whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of 30 days after it
has been rendered.
      (3)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid utility bills as mentioned herein.
   (J)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid utility charges may be sold
for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to
pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
village.
      (2)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized to institute such
proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill for utility services has
remained unpaid 90 days after it has been rendered.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-1) (Ord. 98-104, passed 4-14-1998)
§ 51.02 CONSUMER LISTS.
   (A)   It is hereby made the duty of the Clerk to prepare or cause to be
prepared a complete and accurate list of all premises and properties receiving
utility services, showing the name and address of the occupant and the owner of
the same.
   (B)   The list shall be kept up-to-date, and shall be corrected from time to
time to allow changes in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or
premises. It shall be presented at the regular monthly meeting if requested.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-2)
§ 51.03 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of any lot, parcel of land or premises and the user of the
services shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the services
to such lot, parcel of land or premises, and all services are rendered to the
premises by the village only on the condition that such owner, occupant and
user shall be jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-3)
§ 51.04 ESTIMATED CHARGE.
   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair or from any cause
fails to properly register the utilities passing through the same, the consumer
shall be charged the average charge of the previous three months usage. If no
record of the previous three months exists, then it shall be the duty of the
Water Clerk to estimate the amount of utilities consumed during the time the
meter fails to operate and the consumer shall be charged with such estimated
amount. Bills may be estimated whenever it is impossible to read the meters
during inclement weather.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-4)
§ 51.05 NO FREE UTILITY SERVICE.
   No free utility service shall be furnished to any person, public or private,
and all rates and charges shall be nondiscriminatory, provided that the Mayor
and Village Board reserve the right to impose special rates and charges in
cases where particular circumstances render the regular rates inadequate or
unjust.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-5)
§ 51.06 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Property owner. A utility deposit of $100 shall be paid to the Clerk
by any applicant before any water will be turned on to any premises. The
deposit shall be retained by the village for 12 months of payments at which
time the deposit shall be credited to the user's account; provided, however,
that said user shall have a good payment record, making all monthly payments
timely. The utility deposit shall not be required for (a) any user whose
account is in good standing who transfers service from one property in the
village to another property, or (b) for any property owner whose account is in
good standing in order to maintain or begin service to a property after a
renter or other person in possession of the premises vacates the premises.
   (B)   Renters. The deposit for renters shall be retained by the village
until the renter permanently vacates the premises.
   (C)   Security for payment - no interest. The deposits made under the
provisions of this section shall be held by the village as security for the
payment of utility services used by the applicant upon the premises to which
his or her application pertains, and may be so applied when any default is made
in the payment in the utilities bill in accordance with this subchapter. The
depositor shall earn no interest on the deposit.
   (D)   Liability for deposit. The owner of the premises and the tenant
thereof shall be jointly and severally liable to pay the required deposit
herein established before water and sewer services shall be made available to
the tenant-occupied premises. In the case a portion of the deposit is used as
aforesaid, the tenant or owner of the premises shall immediately deposit with
the Water Clerk an amount sufficient to bring the deposit to the established
rate of deposit.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-6) (Ord. 03/09/2004-2, passed 3-9-2004; Ord. 01/10/2012-3,
passed 1-10-2012; Ord. 2021-15, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 51.07 WATER AND SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED FOR OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person occupying a residential dwelling
structure to fail to procure, accept and use village water and sewer services.
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $75 or more than $750 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 5-12-2020)
UTILITY RATES GENERALLY
§ 51.20 BUILDING UNIT DEFINED.
   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it an
apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual customer or
such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one minimum
water and/or sewer account according to the number of families or individual
residents residing therein.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-1)
§ 51.21 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the water and
sewer systems shall be deposited in the Combined Water and Sewage Fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the Treasurer separate and apart from
his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
village and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the bank not more than two working days after receipt of the same,
or at such more frequent intervals as may, from time to time, be directed by
the Village Board.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall receive all deposit slips from the water and sewer
systems and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such
systems as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the
account of the fund designated as the Water and Sewage Fund of the village.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by 65 ILCS 5/11-129-1 et seq.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-2)
§ 51.22 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the water and sewer systems and
at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water and sewer systems.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do, in fact, meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-3)
§ 51.23 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this subchapter, properly certified by the Village Clerk, shall be
filed in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds and shall be deemed notice
to all owners of real estate of the charges of the water and sewer systems of
the village on their properties. Each user shall be notified at least annually,
in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-4)
§ 51.23 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, United States Environmental
Protection Agency or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the village which are applicable to the
village’s system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any state
grant.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-5)
§ 51.24 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §§
51.20 through
51.24, 51.35 through 51.37 and 51.50 through 51.56 shall be made available to a
user within 15 days of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement
over the method used, or in the computation thereof, shall be remedied by a
third party selected by both parties within 90 days after notification of a
formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-6)
WATER RATES
§ 51.35 WATER TAP-ON FEES.
   (A)   Inside village. Applicants for water service inside the village shall
pay a charge of $350. All labor and materials such as connecting pipes, meter
vaults and covers, valves, and connections shall be paid for by the applicant.
   (B)   Outside village. Applicants for water service outside the village
limits shall pay $350 plus the cost of labor and materials, except as noted in
division (C) below.
   (C)   North Main Street water main extension. Applicants for water service
on the North Main Street water main extension shall pay $2,300 plus the cost of
labor and materials beginning May 1, 2014.
   (D)   West Main Street water main extension. Applicants for water service on
the West Main Street water main extension shall pay $2,500 plus the cost of
labor and materials beginning October 1, 2017.
   (E)   Illinois Plumbing Code. All water tap and service connections made to
the mains of the waterworks system of the village shall conform to the
regulations of this code of ordinances and of the Illinois Plumbing Code. All
connections and installations shall be made by a licensed plumber, and be
inspected by the Village Water and Sewer Superintendent.
   (F)   Maintenance of water lines. The village shall replace all water mains
when it has been deemed necessary to do so in order to maintain service in the
village. The village shall limit its responsibility to maintaining water lines
to the water mains and to the service lines up to the meter. The property owner
shall be responsible for the service line from the meter into the premises
served.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-10) (Ord. 98-102, passed 1-13-1998; Ord. 99-111, passed 10-
12-1999; Ord. 04/08/2008-1, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 05/13/14-2, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 51.36 WATER RATES.
   There shall be established the following rates and charges for the use of
the water system of the village, based upon the amount of water consumed as
follows:
   (A)   Water rates inside village (residential and commercial).
      (1)   First 1,500 gallons per month: $9.56 minimum charge; and
      (2)   Over 1,500 gallons per month: $0.443 per 100 gallons.
   (B)   Water rates outside village (residential and commercial).
      (1)   First 1,500 gallons per month: $15.61 minimum charge; and
      (2)   Over 1,500 gallons per month: $0.667 per 100 gallons.
   (C)   Bulk sales. Per 100 gallons per month: $1.00 per 100 gallons.
   (D)   Per meter fee for water plant improvements. The per meter fee per
month is $17.87.
   (E)   The Village Board shall review water rates at least annually
(1999 Code, § 38-4-11) (Ord. 92-106, passed 5-6-1992; Ord. 04/10/01-1, passed
4-10-2001; Ord. 10/11/2005-1, passed 10-11-2005; Ord. 01/10/2012-3, passed 1-
10-2012; Ord. 02/14/2012-1, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 08/13/13-3, passed 8-13-
2013; Ord. 2015-6, passed 7-14-2015; Ord. 2016-2, passed 4-13-2016; Ord. 2020-
03, passed 2-12-2020; Ord. 2022-09, passed 10-11-2022; Ord. 2023-20, passed 12-
12-2023)
§ 51.37 REQUESTED SHUT-OFF.
   If user requests water to be shut off, there will be a $25 fee to have the
water turned on again.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-12)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 51.50 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt service charge and a
surcharge, if applicable.
   (A)   The debt service charge is computed by dividing the annual debt
service of all outstanding bonds by the number of users.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations:
      (1)   A five day 20°C biochemical oxygen demand BOD of 200 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 260 mg/l.
   (C)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement
and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
      (2)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible;
      (3)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial and industrial
users by volume, suspended solids and BOD;
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallon for normal sewage strength; and
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per 1,000 gallon per mg/l in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   (D)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
concentrations of BOD 200 mg/l and SS 260 mg/l. The surcharge will be based on
water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes
which exceed the 200 mg/l and 260 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS
respectively. (Section 51.54 specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.)
   (E)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the village in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs
including replacement costs.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-31)
§ 51.51 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the highest increments of 1,000
gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the Sewer Inspector for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Sewer Inspector if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Sewer Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-32)
§ 51.52 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   The following rates are established for the user charge system.
   (A)   Basic user charge. There shall be and there is hereby established a
minimum charge and a basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by
the wastewater facilities of the village. A minimum charge of $11.48 per month
shall be applied to all users whose water consumption does not exceed 1,500
gallons per month.
   (B)   Debt service charge. Debt service charge is not calculated separately;
however, it is included in the basic user rate.
      (1)   Inside village.
         (a)   First 1,500 gallons: $11.48 minimum per month; and
         (b)   Over 1,500 gallons: $0.464 per 100 gallons.
      (2)   Outside village.
         (a)   First 1,500 gallons: $11.83 minimum per month; and
         (b)   Over 1,500 gallons: $0.482 per 100 gallons.
   (C)   The Village board shall review wastewater rates at least annually.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-33) (Ord. 92-106, passed 5-6-1992; Ord. 98-102, passed 1-13-
1998; Ord. 04/10/01-1, passed 4-10-2001; Ord. 10/11/2005-1, passed 10-11-2005;
Ord. 01/10/2012-3, passed 1-10-2012; Ord. 2022-09, passed 10-11-2022; Ord.
2023-20, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 51.53 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Sewer Inspector and shall be binding as a basis
for surcharges.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-34)
§ 51.54 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
      CW = CM+(Vu-X)CU
   Where CW = Amount of waste service charge ($) per bill period;
   CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement;
   Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period;
   X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge; and
   CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-35)
§ 51.55 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 51.56 SEWER TAP-IN FEES.
   (A)   Regular tap-ins. Any premises connected to the sewerage system, a
charge of $250 shall be made for such connection. However, if no riser exists
and main line has to be tapped, the customer shall be liable for all expenses,
including labor and materials. Whenever any premises shall hereafter be
connected to the system is outside the village limits, the charge for the
privilege of tapping in shall be $300.
   (B)   Putnam Street sewer extension. Applicants connecting to the Putnam
Street sewer extension, said extension running north from existing manhole #185
along Putnam Street, will be charged a tap fee of $4,000, exclusive of all
labor and materials.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-37) (Ord. 99-111, passed 10-12-1999)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Regulations
   
52.001   Application for taps and service connections to the waterworks system
   
52.002   All service to be by meter
   
52.003   Inspection
   
52.004   Meter damaged
   
52.005   Damage due to interruption of service; liability
   
52.006   Resale
   
52.007   Discontinuing service; dangerous usage
   
52.008   Electric ground wires
   
52.009   Water for building or construction purposes
   
52.010   Fire hydrants
   
52.011   Limited water usage in emergencies
   
52.012   Shortage and purity of supply
   
52.013   Noncompliance with rules and regulations
   
52.014   Easements
   
52.015   Use of water on consumer’s premises
   
52.016   Removal of meters
   
52.017   Rules to become part of contract
   
52.018   Installing and maintaining service lines
   
52.019   Allocation of maintenance costs between user and village
   
52.020   Village not liable for interruption of supply
Cross-Connection Administration
   
52.035   Approved backflow device
   
52.036   Cross-connection prohibited; exception
   
52.037   Investigations by Superintendent
   
52.038   Right to enter premises
   
52.039   Notice to customer; reconnect fee
   
52.040   Contamination cost and the consumer
Cross-Connection Control Code
   
52.055   Purpose
   
52.056   Application
   
52.057   Responsibility of owner
   
52.058   Definitions
   
52.059   Water system
   
52.060   Cross-connection prohibited
   
52.061   Survey and investigations
   
52.062   Where protection is required
   
52.063   Type of protection required
   
52.064   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.065   Inspection and maintenance
   
52.066   Booster pumps
Extension of Mains
   
52.080   Determination of who pays expense of extension
   
52.081   Easements
   
52.082   Size and type
   
52.083   Title
   
52.084   Maintenance and replacement
Use of Groundwater as a Potable Water Supply Prohibited
   
52.095   Prohibition within certain areas
   
52.096   Definitions
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.001 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO THE WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   An applicant desiring a water tap or service connection with the waterworks
system of the village shall file a written application at the Village Hall,
signed by the owner of the property for which the tap or service connection is
desired, or by the duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall
be accompanied by payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed to cover the cost
of such service connection. In the event the application is made by an agent
for the owner, then the application shall also be accompanied by the written
authority of the owner to the agent for the making of the application.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-1)
§ 52.002 ALL SERVICE TO BE BY METER.
   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial or industrial use shall
be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing and so as to be
free from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a building shall be set in a
suitable meter box approved by the Water and Sewer Committee. Water shall not
be turned on for new connections until the meter has been installed and all
other requirements of this chapter on the part of the property owner have been
fully complied with.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-2)
§ 52.003 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access to premises. The village shall have access to all portions of
the premises of the consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use
of water and the consumer’s pipe, fixtures, plumbing and any other apparatus in
any manner connected to the waterworks system of the village. The village shall
have the right and option to demand change or stopping of use or to require any
repair, change, removal or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing or other
apparatus that would in any manner affect the water supply or system of the
village or the supply or fixtures of other consumers.
   (B)   Meters to be open to inspection. All water meters and water fixtures,
connections and appurtenances on private property connected with the waterworks
system of the village shall be open to the inspection of the proper officers
and employees of the village at all reasonable hours.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-3)
§ 52.004 METER DAMAGED.
   Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being forced
back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating apparatus or for any
other cause within control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the village
for the actual cost of the removal, repair and replacement of the damaged meter
and all previous water bills shall be corrected on an estimated basis to cover
such period as it appears that the meter was out of order for such damage.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-4)
§ 52.005 DAMAGE DUE TO INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; LIABILITY.
   All connections for the water services applied for hereunder and all
connections now attached to the present village waterworks system and all use
or service of the system shall be upon the express condition that the village
will not be liable for nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or
injury caused by reason of the breaking of any main, service, pipe, apparatus
or appurtenance connected with the waterworks system or for any interruption of
the supply of water by reason of the breaking of machinery or by reason of
stoppages, alterations or renewals.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-5)
§ 52.006 RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient or consumer thereof
from the village supply to any premises other than that for which application
has been made and the meter installed, except in cases of emergency.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-6) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007 DISCONTINUING SERVICE; DANGEROUS USAGE.
   The village shall have the right to refuse water service or to discontinue
water service, without notice, at any time to any consumer if the village finds
any apparatus or appliances, the operation of which will be detrimental to the
water system of the village or to any or all of its consumers. Standpipes,
hydrants, gate valves and any other apparatus that cause water hammer or any
danger to the water system or other customer’s plumbing shall be immediately
repaired or removed upon notice from the village or, at its option, the village
may immediately discontinue service without notice and without any liability
for direct or resulting damages therefrom.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-7)
§ 52.008 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   (A)   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire
to any plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water
service pipe, water meter or water main belonging to the village.
   (B)   The village shall hold the owner of the premises responsible and
liable for any damage to the property or injury to the employees of the village
caused by such ground wire. Any and all owners and consumers shall remove any
existing ground wires immediately upon written notice from the village. If not
so disconnected five days after notice, the village, through its officials, may
enter the property and remove such ground wires and the consumer shall pay all
costs.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-8) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.009 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Applicants desiring to use water from the village waterworks system
for building or construction purposes shall make application therefor to the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department on a form provided by the
Water and Sewer Department for that purpose.
   (B)   Upon a permit being granted, the service pipe shall be carried at the
expense of the applicant to the inside of the curb line where a service cock
and meter shall be placed with pipe leading to the surface and a faucet placed
at the end thereof above the surface. When the building or construction is
completed, the faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off unless
permanent connection is made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Charge for the use and connection of the meter shall be prescribed by the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-9)
§ 52.010 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All public fire hydrants with gate valves, tees and connections from
the main, inside the village limits, shall be owned, maintained and used only
by the village and the Moweaqua Fire District and shall be solely responsible
for same. Use of water from fire hydrants by contractors and others shall be
only upon permission by the village and after approved by the Water and Sewer
Superintendent.
   (B)   The village shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside of the
village limits or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom or any
damage either direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure or amount
of water available at any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants located outside the village limits owned by
the village shall be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but
the village will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for
their condition or use or abuse. Such public fire hydrants shall be used only
for the purpose of extinguishing fires except when the village may issue a
special permit for their use to contractors who shall then be responsible for
the hydrants and the use of water from them.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-10)
§ 52.011 LIMITED WATER USAGE IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to proclaim the existence of an
emergency whenever it appears that the village water supply is inadequate for
all general uses and purposes, which proclamation shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community and the Mayor is further
authorized to declare in similar manner the end of an emergency period.
   (B)   From and after the publication of a proclamation as provided for in
division (A) above, the following uses of water shall be prohibited:
      (1)   The washing of cars and other vehicles;
      (2)   The sprinkling of lawns and shrubbery;
      (3)   The watering of gardens; and
      (4)   Other nonessential uses.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to so use water from the village
supply during such an emergency.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.012 SHORTAGE AND PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The village shall not be held responsible for or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer or public body for any claim or damage, either direct
or resultant because of any shortage of water supply, any shutoff of water for
any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s or village’s
mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water supply or any
fire or water damage.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-12)
§ 52.013 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   If any consumer fails to comply with any of the rules and regulations in
force, the village shall notify the consumer of such failure. If the consumer
does not remedy the same as the rules provide and within a reasonable time, the
village shall have the right to discontinue service. Except in case of
nonpayment, emergency, necessity or as otherwise provided, the village will not
discontinue service for violation of any rule until five days after notice has
been given and the violation has not been remedied.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-13)
§ 52.014 EASEMENTS.
   The consumer shall give such easements and rights-of-way as necessary to the
village and allow access for the purpose of construction, repair, maintenance,
meter reading, relocation or expansion of the water system. The necessity shall
be determined by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-14)
§ 52.015 USE OF WATER ON CONSUMER’S PREMISES.
   The village shall reserve the right to use the water from the consumer’s
facilities at any time deemed necessary. No charge shall be made by the
consumer for the use of the facilities and no charge shall be made by the
village for the water used by the village.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-15)
§ 52.016 REMOVAL OF METERS.
   All meters shall remain the property of the Department and may be removed
from the customer’s premises at any time without notice for the purpose of
testing and repairing the same or upon discontinuance of service. Upon
discovery of any unlawful act by any customer, his or her agent or employee
herein prohibited or upon failure to comply with any other rules and
regulations of the Department, such service shall be disconnected.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-16)
§ 52.017 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water system and the consumption of water shall be adopted and the same shall
become part of the contract with every water consumer and every water consumer
shall be considered to take water from the village, subject thereto and bound
thereby.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-17)
§ 52.018 INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of
service lines between the meter and the residence or business. Such service
lines must be at least three-fourths inch in diameter, and must be installed at
a minimum depth of three feet. Service lines must have a minimum working
pressure rating of 160 psi at 73.4°F and must be constructed of one of the
following types of materials: copper, (Type K); polyvinyl chloride (PVC);
polyethylene; or polybutylene. Service lines shall not be covered until they
are inspected and approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   The user shall not connect any service line or any plumbing connected
with the service line to any other water source. The service line shall meet
all requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency’s rules and
regulations, the Illinois Plumbing Code and the regulations in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-18)
§ 52.019 ALLOCATION OF MAINTENANCE COSTS BETWEEN USER AND VILLAGE.
   The village shall maintain and repair all water service pipes between the
water mains and the curb lines. Any repairs to service lines or taps between
the water mains and the sidewalk or property line shall be the village’s
expense. Any repairs or renewals of water service pipes between the property
line or curb line and extending to the owner’s premises shall be made at the
sole expense of the consumer or owner of the premises.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-19)
§ 52.020 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to shut off the supply of water
whenever it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for
any notice as circumstances allow, will be given to consumers but in
emergencies, the water may be shut off without notice. All hot water faucets
shall be left open during any shut-off to prevent damage to plumbing. Such
necessary work will be done as rapidly as may be practical and whenever
feasible at such times as will cause the least inconvenience. The village shall
not be held responsible for or liable because of any shut-off of supply for any
direct or resultant damages to any person, company or consumer or to any pipe,
fixtures or plumbing.
   (B)   Water for steam boilers, gas engines, ice plants or other industrial
use, shall not be furnished by direct pressure from the mains, but only to
tanks holding ample reserve supply. Should any equipment be supplied direct
from mains, then in case of any shutoff of water, the village will not be held
responsible or liable for any direct or resulting damage because of interrupted
supply, insufficient pressure or otherwise.
   (C)   Whenever water mains, pipes and service connections are taken up,
shut-off or interfered with by reason of any village street improvements, the
village will endeavor to maintain service so far as reasonably possible, but
will not be directly or indirectly liable for any interruption, poor pressure
or damage of any kind either to consumers, adjacent or to other consumers
affected thereby.
   (D)   The village expressly stipulates with all its consumers and other
persons that it will not insure or be responsible or liable in any manner for
any losses, or damages, direct or resultant by reason of any fire, and all
water service furnished shall always be conditional upon acts of God,
inevitable accidents, fire, strikes, riots, war or any other cause not within
the reasonable control of the village.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-20)
CROSS-CONNECTION ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.035 APPROVED BACKFLOW DEVICE.
   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in accordance
with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If, in accordance with
the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Inspector, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the Inspector shall give notice to the water customer to install
such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her
own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the
Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and local
regulations.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-21)
§ 52.036 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply enters the supply or
distribution system of the village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the Superintendent and the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-22) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 INVESTIGATIONS BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years
or as often as the Inspector shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-23)
§ 52.038 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections and that the Inspector or his or her
authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessee or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Inspector any information which he or she may request regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information when demanded shall, within the discretion of the Inspector, be
evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-24)
§ 52.039 NOTICE TO CUSTOMER; RECONNECT FEE.
   (A)   The Water Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he or she
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of $100 is paid to the
Water Clerk.
   (B)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Inspector is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Inspector or the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply.
   (C)   The public water supply, the Inspector or the agents or assigns shall
not be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which
may result from termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-25)
§ 52.040 CONTAMINATION COST AND THE CONSUMER.
   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-26)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL CODE
§ 52.055 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-31)
§ 52.056 APPLICATION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water supply system of the village.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-32)
§ 52.057 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-siphonage
of contaminants through the customers water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Superintendent or his or her authorized representative, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice to the consumer to
install such approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to
the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at his or her own expense; failure, refusal or inability on the part of
the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or
devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation,
maintenance, testing and repair as required in§
52.061(D) for a period of at least five years. The Superintendent of Water may
require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the
village to assist in determining whether or not service line protection will be
required. All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a Cross-
Connection Control Device Inspector certified by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-33)
§ 52.058 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be polluted
or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The backflow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check
valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S).
      (1)   Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, or biologically or
otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer’s potable water system.
      (2)   This includes, but is not limited to:
         (a) Polluted or contaminated waters;
         (b)   Process waters;
         (c)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system
which may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
         (d)   Cooling waters;
         (e)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
         (f)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
         (g)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closed shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with-properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping,
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-34)
§ 52.059 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under, the control of the Superintendent of Water up to
the point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-35)
§ 52.060 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the Agency.
   (C)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-36)
§ 52.061 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request of the Superintendent, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   Testing and records:
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer;
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e);
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs; and
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and date completed.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-37)
§ 52.062 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
Superintendent, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system
exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or system containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water, are not correctable or intricate plumbing
arrangements it make which impractical to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises haying a repeated history or cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverages processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-38)
§ 52.063 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
52.062 of these regulations shall depend on the degree of hazard, which exists
as follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
52.062 of these regulations shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
connected to the public water supply when:
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source;
      (4)   Water can be pumped into the fire safety system from any other
source; or
      (5)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-39)
§ 52.064 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-40)
§ 52.065 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-41)
§ 52.066 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-42)
EXTENSION OF MAINS
§ 52.080 DETERMINATION OF WHO PAYS EXPENSE OF EXTENSION.
   The Village Board shall first determine if an extension of water main is
economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will use water along the extension. If
the extension is economically feasible then the village may install and pay the
cost of the extension at the discretion of the Village Board. If the village
elects not to pay the cost of extending the water main then the person or
persons desiring water service shall install the extension at their own
personal expense upon written consent by the Village Board. The village shall
not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area, such as a subdivision being
developed, unless there are sufficient existing residents or businesses to make
the extension economically feasible. (See
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances for design requirements.)
(1999 Code, § 38-3-53)
§ 52.081 EASEMENTS.
   Applicants for main extensions shall deliver, without cost to the village,
permanent easements or rights-of-way when necessary for the installation and
maintenance of the extensions or subsequent additions thereto. The village
shall not be obligated to authorize any construction until all requirements of
this chapter have been met.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-54)
§ 52.082 SIZE AND TYPE.
   The village reserves the right to determine and specify the diameter and
type of pipe required to provide the service requested, and subject to the
requirements of municipal authorities, its location within or without the
limits of a street. The village further reserves the right to install a main
larger in diameter than the main required to render the service requested, in
which case, the village will pay the difference in cost.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-55)
§ 52.083 TITLE.
   Title to all main extensions shall be vested in the village and the village
shall have the right to further extend any main installed in and to other
streets or premises without repayment or refund to any applicant. However, the
village reserves the right to consider extensions made at the applicant’s
expense and without written agreement as to service lines. Upon such lines, the
village will set a meter at the beginning of the extension to measure all water
used and title to the line beyond the meter will be vested in the customer who
shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement, when necessary.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-56)
§ 52.084 MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.
   The village, at its own expense, shall maintain and when necessary, replace
the village owned mains used to supply water to its customers, and if adequate
service requires the reconstruction or replacement of such mains, the mains
shall be reconstructed or replaced by the village at its expense.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-57)
USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED
§ 52.095 PROHIBITION WITHIN CERTAIN AREAS.
   Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date of
this subchapter, the use of, or attempted use as a potable water supply
groundwater from within the corporate limits of the village, and within 200
yards of a connection to a water main, as a potable water supply, by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited.
This prohibition expressly includes the village. See attached map for location
of restrictions as shown within yellow highlighted area, which is attached to
Ord. 2017-5 and adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes
or preparing foods.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a
low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
      (2)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
      (3)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
      (4)   Neither the village, the Superintendent or its agents or assigns,
shall be liable to any customers of the village for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of §§
52.001 through
52.020,
52.035 through
52.040,
52.055 through
52.066 and
52.080 through
52.084, whether or not said termination of the water supply was with or without
notice.
      (5)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
      (6)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.001 through
52.020,
52.035 through
52.040,
52.055 through
52.066 and
52.080 through
52.084 shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violation.
      (7)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.001 through
52.020,
52.035 through
52.040,
52.055 through
52.066 and
52.080 through
52.084, in addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village
for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the village by reason of such
violation, whether the same was caused before or after notice.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-43)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
52.095 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 or more than $750 for
each violation.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
53.015   Deposit of wastes
   
53.016   Sewage in natural outlet
   
53.017   Private system, unlawful
   
53.018   Connection to system required
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.030   Private sewage system
   
53.031   Health Department approval
   
53.032   Permit approval
   
53.033   Compliance with state requirements
   
53.034   Availability of public sewer
   
53.035   Operation of private system
   
53.036   Additional restrictions
   
53.037   Time constraints for public sewer
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.050   Disturbing system unlawful
   
53.051   Compliance with regulating authorities
   
53.052   Classes of permits
   
53.053   Cost borne by owner
   
53.054   Separate sewer; exception
   
53.055   Old building sewers
   
53.056   Construction methods
   
53.057   Plumbing Code requirements
   
53.058   Elevation
   
53.059   Prohibited connections
   
53.060   Connections to sewer mains
   
53.061   Capacity of sewer
   
53.062   Tap-in supervision and testing
   
53.063   Inspection
   
53.064   Public sewer connection
   
53.065   Protection of property
   
53.066   Bond required
   
53.067   Unlawful discharges
Extension of Collecting Sewers
   
53.080   Permit required; authorized personnel
   
53.081   Extension permits
   
53.082   Materials
   
53.083   Inspections of construction
   
53.084   Manholes required
Use of Public Wastewater Facilities
   
53.095   Discharge of storm water
   
53.096   Storm water
   
53.097   Regulation of wastes
   
53.098   Harmful effects
   
53.099   Harmful wastes; approval
   
53.100   Grease and oil interceptors
   
53.101   Flow-equalizing facilities
   
53.102   Industrial wastes control manhole
   
53.103   Industrial waste testing
   
53.104   Measurements and tests
   
53.105   Special arrangements
Inspections
   
53.120   Damage
   
53.121   Inspection and testing
   
53.122   Liability of village
   
53.123   Private property inspections
Prohibiting Discharge of Sanitary Sewage and Industrial Waste Water into Storm
Sewers
   
53.135   Prohibition
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Clarification of word usage.
      MAY. Permissible.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
   (B)   Government, local.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of sewage works of the village or
his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
      INSPECTOR. The Superintendent or other person or persons duly authorized
by the village to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the sanitary sewer system.
      NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Federal Act.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private cooperation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   (C)   Government, federal.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
      FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 466 et seq.) as
amended, (Pub. L. No. 95-217).
      FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   (D)   Government, state.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
      STATE GRANT. The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of
State of Illinois.
   (E)   Sewer types and appurtenances.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
other.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary sewer or combined sewer system, even though those sewers may not have
been constructed with village funds.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   (F)   Treatment.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   (G)   Types of charges.
      BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. The charge levied on users to improve, extend
or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like)
outstanding.
      LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacements costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term operation and maintenance includes
REPLACEMENT.
      RESERVE FUND CHARGE. A revolving fund for expansion and construction of
the sewer, system.
      SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than average concentration values as established by code.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost
operation, maintenance and replacement.
      WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §§
52.001 through
52.020,
52.035 through
52.040,
52.055 through
52.066 and
52.080 through
52.084 of this code of ordinances and shall consist of the total or the basic
user charge, the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   (H)   User types.
      COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
      INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, buildings, mobile
homes, apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
      USER CLASS. The type of user either “residential or commercial” (non-
industrial) or “industrial” as defined herein.
   (I)   Wastewater facilities.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   (J)   Watercourse and connections.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   (K)   Wastewater and its characteristics.
      BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user the publicly owned
treatment works that:
         (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
         (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
         (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
         (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in 1,000 milliliter
of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million,
to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
      ppm. Parts per million by weight.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
      SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by
a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the I.E.P.A. Division
of Laboratories Methods.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
      WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-1)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.015 DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-4) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 SEWAGE IN NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-5) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.017 PRIVATE SYSTEM, UNLAWFUL.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-6) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village
and abutting on any street, alley, right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
village is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this code of ordinances,
within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said
public sewer is within 200 feet of the nearest property line and adequate to
handle the additional connection, where determined to be required.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-7)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.030 PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
53.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-10)
§ 53.031 HEALTH DEPARTMENT APPROVAL.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit from the appropriate Health
Department. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the village which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
A permit and inspection fee of $250 shall be paid to the village at the time
the application is filed.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-11)
§ 53.032 PERMIT APPROVAL.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the
receipt of written notice by the Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-12)
§ 53.033 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code, being 225 ILCS 225 and with the State
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-13)
§ 53.034 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
53.018, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this code of ordinances, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-14)
§ 53.035 OPERATION OF PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the village.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-15)
§ 53.036 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Local Health
Officer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-16)
§ 53.037 TIME CONSTRAINTS FOR PUBLIC SEWER.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-17)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.050 DISTURBING SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-21) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATING AUTHORITIES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-22) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.052 CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits as follows:
      (1)   Residential wastewater service; and
      (2)   Service to commercial or institutional establishments or industrial
wastewater service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make applications
on a special form furnished by the village. The fee per connection shall be
paid to the village at the time the application is filed pursuant to §§
52.001 through
52.020,
52.035 through
52.040,
52.055 through
52.066 and
52.080 through
52.084 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, shall
provide information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and
type of activity.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-23)
§ 53.053 COST BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses including labor and material incidental to the
installation; connection and maintenance of a lateral sewer line shall be borne
by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify the village from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation,
connection and maintenance of the lateral sewer lines. This section shall apply
even where the lateral sewer line runs under a public street, public right-of-
way or public easement.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-24)
§ 53.054 SEPARATE SEWER; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway; the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer; except for sewer connection charges
accruing from such buildings or properties.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-25)
§ 53.055 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-26)
§ 53.056 CONSTRUCTION METHODS.
   (A)   The size, slope, depth and alignment, of the building sewer shall be
subject to the approval of the Superintendent. In no case shall the inside
diameter of the building sewer be less than four inches. If six-inch diameter
pipe is used, the slope shall not be less than one-eighth inch per foot. If
four-inch or five-inch diameter pipe is used, the slope shall not be less one-
fourth-inch per foot. The depth of the building sewer shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform
grade and in straight alignment, insofar as possible. Changes in direction
shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings, unless the break in
alignment is made at a manhole facilitating servicing. Installation shall be in
accordance with Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction
in Illinois.
   (B)   (1)   All building sewers shall be constructed of materials approved
by the village. Generally all building sewers shall be constructed of the
following materials:
         (a)   Cast or ductile iron pipe;
         (b)   ABS solid wall plastic pipe (six-inch diameter maximum); and
         (c)   PVC solid wall plastic pipe (six-inch diameter maximum) SDR-35.
      (2)   All pipe joints must be gas-tight and water-tight and are subject
to the approval of the village. Transition joints from one pipe material to
another shall be made using fittings manufactured for such transitions.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-27)
§ 53.057 PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-28)
§ 53.058 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with §
53.051 and discharged to the building sewer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-29)
§ 53.059 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to public sanitary sewer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-30) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.060 CONNECTIONS TO SEWER MAINS.
   (A)   Building sewer connections with any sewer shall be made only at
manholes or other such, junctions as may be provided or designated by the
village, and then only in such manner as directed. The connection of the
building sewer shall be made at a wye branch, if such branch is available. The
building service sewer shall generally enter the sewer main or lateral by way
of an existing wye. In the event of absence of the wye, the connection to the
sewer main or lateral shall be made by one of the methods indicated below:
      (1)   Installation of a manhole;
      (2)   Circular saw-cut sewer main by proper tools (“sewer tap” machine or
similar), and proper installation of hub wye saddle, in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendation. This method shall not be allowed when the wye
branch is larger than four inches in diameter. The entire sewer main in the
location of the wye and the wye shall be encased in concrete; and
      (3)   Using the pipe cutter only, neatly and accurately cut, out desired
length of pipe for insertion of proper fitting. Remove both hub and bell ends,
or other compression couplings from wye branch fitting to allow the wye branch
to be inserted with no more than a total of one-half-inch gap. Use “Band Seal”
couplings, or similar couplings, and shear rings and, clamps to fasten the
inserted fitting and hold it firmly in place. The entire section shall then be
encased in concrete having a minimum thickness of four inches and extending
eight inches beyond each joint.
   (B)   If another method is desired, a detail shall be submitted for review
and approval by the village before the connection is made. Indiscriminate
breaking of the sewer main pipe is not allowed.
      (1)   On-site inspection. After the wye branch has been inserted and
jointed, and before any additional fittings have been placed in the service
line, the installation shall be approved by the Superintendent, or his or her
authorized representative. After approval is granted, the contractor shall
encase the work area as specified herein.
      (2)   Backfill. To be placed in accordance with the Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, current
edition. In addition, any building sewers crossing any street, or traveled
alley shall be backfilled with granular backfill material.
      (3)   Concrete encasement. When a riser is constructed and its height is
four feet or more measured from the flowline of the sewer main to the top of
the riser pipe, the wye connection shall be encased in concrete to a height of
at least one foot six inches above the flowline of the sewer main. When the
height of the riser is less than four feet above the flowline of the sewer
main, the wye connection shall be backfilled to the top of the riser pipe with
carefully placed and compacted granular backfill.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-31)
§ 53.061 CAPACITY OF SEWER.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed, if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-32)
§ 53.062 TAP-IN SUPERVISION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the village or its
representative.
   (B)   At any time after the installation of the building sewer, the village
may test the building sewer for violation of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-33)
§ 53.063 INSPECTION.
   After the building sewer has been constructed in the trench but before the
sewer is backfilled, the applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the Superintendent that the building sewer is ready for inspection. If the
sewer has been constructed properly, permission will be given to backfill the
trench. If the sewer construction is found to be unsuitable, the permit
applicant will correct the installation to meet village’s requirements.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-34)
§ 53.064 PUBLIC SEWER CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other applicable rules
and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the village before installation.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-35)
§ 53.065 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-36)
§ 53.066 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   If the applicant for the building sewer permit does not have a general
bond on file with the village, the applicant shall furnish a corporate surety
bond in an amount one and one-half times the cost of the contemplated work for
which the permit is to be issued.
   (B)   Any experienced sewer builder or drain layer may furnish to the
village a continuing surety bond in the sum of $5,000 to apply to all building
sewer permits issued to such builder or to the principals thereof for a term of
one year from the date thereof subject to renewal from year to year, and such
continuing bond may be accepted in behalf of the village in lieu of a special
bond to cover each permit issued during the term of the bond.
   (C)   Homeowners wishing to install their own building services are not
required to post a bond. Any person performing building sewer work for hire
shall post the bond.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-37)
§ 53.067 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
ordinances in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-38)
EXTENSION OF COLLECTING SEWERS
§ 53.080 PERMIT REQUIRED; AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL.
   No person, not an authorized employee of the village, shall make any
connection with, uncover, alter or disturb a village sewer, or open any
manhole, intercepting chamber, or any appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit to do so from the village, and no person shall make
any connection or opening into any sewer, the flow of which is directly or
indirectly discharged into any village sewer, without first obtaining a written
permit to do so from the village.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-42) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.081 EXTENSION PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance of sewer extension permits shall be initiated by an
application for construction permit. The application shall be made on the forms
provided by the IEPA, shall be fully completed by the applicable persons or
parties, and shall be accompanied by a set of plans, specifications and any
other information as may be required by the village.
   (B)   Plans and specifications shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and approval thereof must be obtained from the village
and IEPA.
   (C)   If the application is in proper form, and the sewer extension
indicated therein appears to be in accordance with this subchapter and all
state and federal requirements, the village shall issue the permit for
construction of the sewer. If otherwise, the application for permit shall be
denied by the village. There shall be no fee charged for sewer extension
application or permits.
   (D)   If the application is denied by the village, it shall state the reason
or reasons therefore in writing, mailed or personally delivered to the
applicant. The applicant shall have the right to amend such application in
conformity with the reasons given for denial, and resubmit it to the village
for further consideration.
   (E)   All permits issued under this subchapter shall have an expiration date
of two years after the date of issuance. Any sewers not constructed prior to
the date of expiration shall have a new application submitted and a new permit
issued prior to their construction.
   (F)   The applicant for the permit shall furnish a corporate surety bond in
an amount one and one-half times the cost of the contemplated work for which
the permit is to be issued.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-43)
§ 53.082 MATERIALS.
   All sewer extensions shall be constructed of the following materials.
   (A)   Sewer pipe with diameters eight inches and larger shall be one of the
following:
      (1)   Extra strength vitrified clay pipe conforming to ASTM C700 with
joints conforming to ASTM C425;
      (2)   ABS composite pipe conforming to ASTM D-2680 with solvent weld
joints or O-ring rubber gasket joints as referenced in ASTM D-2680; and
      (3)   PVC sewer pipe SDR-35 conforming to ASTM 03033 or D3034 with joints
conforming to ASTM D3212.
   (B)   Laterals and fittings from the sewer to the property lines shall be
six-inch diameter and:
      (1)   Of comparable material to the sewer main for VCP and PVC pipe; and
      (2)   For ABS pipe use ABS solid wall pipe SDR-23.5 conforming to ASTMD-
2751.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-44)
§ 53.083 INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Construction of the sewers shall be inspected under competent
supervision supplied by a registered professional engineer and upon completion
of construction, accurate detailed plans as constructed (“record drawings”)
shall be certified and submitted by the professional engineer to the village
before any applications for building sewer permits are filed; all at the
expense of the owner. These plans shall show all elevations as installed as
well as accurate measurements showing the locations of service connections. The
Engineer shall also submit a certified statement showing the source, place and
volume of foreign waters.
   (B)   All sewers shall be subjected to:
      (1)   A lamp test which shall provide that from one manhole to another,
at least one-half of the pipe end area shall be visible;
      (2)   Infiltration or exfiltration test with acceptable allowance of 200
gallons per day per inch diameter per mile; and
      (3)   Under special circumstances, when approved by the village, air
pressure testing with allowance to be specified by the village.
   (C)   When any sewer line fails to pass the infiltration test, the
exfiltration test, or an air pressure test, the sewer line shall be televised
in the presence of the village’s representatives to determine points of faulty
construction. The owner shall repair all defects; the method of repair shall be
subject to the approval of the village.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-45)
§ 53.084 MANHOLES REQUIRED.
   Manholes shall be installed at all changes in grade and/or direction and at
distances not greater than 400 feet apart. All manhole covers shall be water-
tight and self-sealing, incorporating an O-ring gasket. All covers shall have
concealed pick holes. Where manhole covers may be subjected to frequent and
extreme submergence, additional water-tightness shall be ensured by using bolt
down covers.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-46)
USE OF PUBLIC WASTEWATER FACILITIES
§ 53.095 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-49) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.096 STORM WATER.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the village, to a storm sewer, or
natural outlet.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-50)
§ 53.097 REGULATION OF WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solids or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-51) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.098 HARMFUL EFFECTS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
streams; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0
and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste odor-
producing substances, in such concentration exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hq
at any time except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited, to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes, constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5; and
      (12)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the village in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-52) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.099 HARMFUL WASTES; APPROVAL.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.098 of this subchapter, and/or which are in violation of the standards for
pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. part 403, June 26, 1978 and any amendments
thereto, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates for discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
53.080.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, articles and laws.
   (C)   The owner of the pretreatment or equalization facilities shall obtain
construction and operating permits from the State Environmental Protection
Agency prior to the issuance of final approval by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Where multiple process or discharges are present or contemplated at an
industry, the village shall have the authority to require the owner or person
to furnish and install more than one control manhole with appurtenances and/or
require that all wastewater be discharged through a single control manhole or
structure with appurtenances described herein.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-53)
§ 53.100 GREASE AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-54)
§ 53.101 FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-55)
§ 53.102 INDUSTRIAL WASTES CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safety located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-56)
§ 53.103 INDUSTRIAL WASTE TESTING.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this code of ordinances and any
special conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   (1)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state
and local standards are being met.
      (2)   The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the village at such times and in such a manner as prescribed by the
village.
      (3)   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the village.
      (4)   At such times as deemed necessary, the village reserves the right
to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-57)
§ 53.104 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this code of ordinances shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of EEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control
manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (C)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
   (D)   (1)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-
hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab
sample or samples should be taken.
      (2)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-58)
§ 53.105 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   (A)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength, or
character may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment
therefore, in accordance with the chapter, hereof, by the industrial concern
provided such payments are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for
user charge system and industrial cost recovery system.
   (B)   See §§
51.50 through
51.56 of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-59)
INSPECTIONS
§ 53.120 DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-65) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.121 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village,
the State Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Environmental
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-66) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.122 LIABILITY OF VILLAGE.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.121, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village, the
State Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the village employees and the village shall indemnify the company
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain conditions as required in §
53.103.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-67)
§ 53.123 PRIVATE PROPERTY INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-68)
PROHIBITING DISCHARGE OF SANITARY SEWAGE AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE WATER INTO STORM
SEWERS
§ 53.135 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect or cause
to be connected any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement,
septic tank cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging
polluting substances into any storm sewers construed as part of the
improvement.
(Ord. 05/08/2001-2, passed 5-8-2001) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Penalty.
         (a)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
except §§
53.120 and
53.135 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof, the offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
         (b)   The village may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a
result of any violation of any provision of this chapter, except §
53.135.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-71)
      (2)   Continued violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in §
53.096 shall be, upon conviction, be fined in the amount not exceeding $750 for
each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-72)
      (3)   Liability to village. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, except §
53.135, shall become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-73)
   (B)   Discharge of sanitary sewage, §
53.135. Any person, firm or corporation violating §
53.135 shall be fined not less then $75 nor more than $750 for each offense and
separate offenses shall be deemed committed each and every day during which a
violation continues or exists.
(Ord. 05/08/2001-2, passed 5-8-2001)
CHAPTER 54: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
Purpose and Scope
   
54.001   Purpose
   
54.002   Conflicts with other ordinances
Definitions
   
54.015   Definitions
Regulation of Small Wireless Facilities
   
54.030   Permitted use
   
54.031   Permit required
   
54.032   Collocation requirements and conditions
   
54.033   Application fees
   
54.034   Exceptions to applicability
   
54.035   Pre-existing agreements
   
54.036   Annual recurring rate
   
54.037   Abandonment
Dispute Resolution
   
54.050   Venue
Indemnification
   
54.065   Indemnification
Insurance
   
54.080   Insurance requirements
PURPOSE AND SCOPE
§ 54.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations, standards and
procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless facilities on
rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the rights-of-way
on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or industrial use,
in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 54.002 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   This chapter supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted
prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (B)   In the event that applicable state or federal laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the wireless provider shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible
without violating state or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018; Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-11-2021) § 2, 3
DEFINITIONS
§ 54.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency (RF) radiation, to be operated or operating from a fixed
location pursuant to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) authorization, for
the provision of personal wireless service and any commingled information
services. The antenna does not include an unintentional radiator, mobile
station or device.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person or entity that submits an application and the agents,
employees and contractors of such person or entity.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities at a specified location, and a request
that includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as
well as any applicable fee for the review of such application
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property or site, or
group of buildings, properties or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with §§ VI.D.l.a.i through VI.D.l.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic
Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the certified local
government program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of- way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible use. RIGHT-
OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume.
      (2)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter; concealment
elements; telecommunications demarcation box; ground-based enclosures;
grounding equipment; power transfer switch; cut-off switch; and vertical cable
runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but is
acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018; Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-11-2021)
REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 54.030 PERMITTED USE.
   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and subject
to administrative review, except as provided in §
54.032(I) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated:
   (A)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
   (B)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial or
industrial use.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 54.031 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the village to collocate
a small wireless facility. An application shall be received and processed, and
permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions and requirements.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall provide the following information to the
village, together with the village’s small cell facilities permit application,
as a condition of any permit application to collocate small wireless facilities
on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge.
      (2)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (3)   Certification by a radio engineer that a new, replacement or
modified small wireless facility operates within all applicable FCC standards.
   (B)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
      (1)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (2)   (a)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
         (b)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
         (c)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   FCC regulation provides that an application to collocate a small
wireless facility using a new structure shall be granted or denied within 90
days of submission of a completed application. Delays beyond that time limit
are available only in exceptional circumstances. These FCC time limits may be
enforced through litigation.
      (3)   (a)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
         (b)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
         (c)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred-twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt
of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   FCC regulation provides that an application to collocate a small
wireless facility using a new structure shall be granted or denied within 90
days of submission of a completed application. Delays beyond that time limit
are available only in exceptional circumstances. These FCC time limits may be
enforced through litigation.
      (4)   (a)   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
         (c)   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
         (d)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and recommencement
of the village’s review period.
         (e)   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application. Any review of a revised
application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the denial. However,
this revised application does not apply if the cure requires the review of a
new location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new antennas,
or other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility.
      (5)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved permit
to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village
and the applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement, provided
by the village for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the
application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless
facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter
into a license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
   (C)   Completeness of application.
      (1)   Within 10 days after receiving an application, the village shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 10 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the village’s permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village. FCC regulation
allows 10 days for determination of completion, and that 10-day time frame
replaces the 30-day period provided in the state Act.
      (2)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
   (D)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
      (1)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the village;
or
      (2)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
   (E)   Consolidated applications. An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at
the applicant’s discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the
collocations each involve substantially the same type of small wireless
facility and substantially the same type of structure. If an application
includes multiple small wireless facilities, the village may remove small
wireless facility collocations from the application and treat separately small
wireless facility collocations for which incomplete information has been
provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment or that are denied.
The village may issue separate permits for each collocation that is approved in
a consolidated application.
   (F)   Duration of permits.
      (1)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
      (2)   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
   (G)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village’s designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018; Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-11-2021)
§ 54.032 COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A) Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village’s
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   (C)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
      (1)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency’s communications equipment.
      (3)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      (4)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through
90.675.
      (5)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(4) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   Collocating small wireless facilities on village utility poles.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
      (2)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (D), the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Applicable codes and local code provisions. The wireless provider
shall comply with all applicable codes, including acoustic regulations, and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
   (F)   Written design standards. The wireless provider shall comply with
written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility
poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are
set forth in a village ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a
comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers
of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic
district.
   (G)   Alternate placements.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, a wireless provider shall not
be required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility
pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple
antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an
application for the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a
new utility pole, the village may propose that the small wireless facility be
collocated on an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure
within 200 feet of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept
if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
      (2)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division (G).
   (H)   Height limitations. The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
      (1)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole, other
than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place on
the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
      (2)   Fifty feet above ground level. The 50-foot limit provided by FCC
regulation replaces the limit of 45 feet under the Act.
   (I)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a special use permit in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in §§
155.345 through
155.353 of this code of ordinances.
   (J)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right- of-way.
   (K)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   (L)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
   (M)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 54.033 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees are imposed as follows.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures. The fees
established by this chapter are equal to the limit imposed by the Act and
represent a reasonable approximation of the village's objectively reasonable
costs. The village shall regularly review the fees imposed and may adjust the
fees by further amendment to this chapter. The safe harbor rate established by
the FCC of $500 for up to five wireless facilities and $100 for each additional
facility in a consolidated application may be exceeded only if justified based
on the village's reasonable approximation of its costs.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications and certifications consistent
with §
54.031(B); or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
   (E)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018; Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-11-2021)
§ 54.034 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   (A)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   (C)   (1)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Illinois
Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter
rail service or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply
to an electric or gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if
the facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of § 16-108.5(i) of the Illinois Public Utilities Act.
      (2)   (a)   For the purposes of this division (C), PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Illinois Public Utilities Act.
         (b)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person
from any requirement:
            1.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
            2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018; Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-11-2021)
§ 54.035 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division (B).
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 54.036 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals:
      (1)   Two hundred dollars per year; or
      (2)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider’s use of space on the village utility pole.
   (B)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 54.037 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned.
      (2)   The owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility
within 90 days after receipt of written notice from the village notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider.
      (2)   If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days of
such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
   (C)   (1)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village
if it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of
the village.
      (2)   Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the
new wireless provider.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
§ 54.050 VENUE.
   The Circuit Court of Shelby County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to
be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
INDEMNIFICATION
§ 54.065 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless
against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage
resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of
the village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by
the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of
the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act.
   (B)   A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the village or its employees or agents.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the village with respect to consequential, incidental, or special
damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
INSURANCE
§ 54.080 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; and
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-insured is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 2018-36, passed 8-14-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND DERELICT VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Definitions
   
70.01   Illinois Vehicle Code; definitions adopted
General Regulations
   
70.15   Obedience to police
   
70.16   Scene of fire
   
70.17   Signs and signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signs
   
70.19   Interference with signs or signals
   
70.20   Advertising signs
   
70.21   Animals or bicycles
   
70.22   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned, inoperable and derelict vehicles, see
Ch. 73
   Parking rules, see
Ch. 73
   Vehicles and equipment, see
Ch. 72
DEFINITIONS
§ 70.01 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE; DEFINITIONS ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, 65 ILCS 5/1 entitled “Title and Definitions”, as
passed, approved and amended by the Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted
by the village, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the village.
(1999 Code, § 24-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2, 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.15 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department, special police and auxiliary police
assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(1999 Code, § 24-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-203
§ 70.16 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command or any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as the Fire Department equipment is on the scene
in the absence of or in assisting the Police Department.
(1999 Code, § 24-2-2)
§ 70.17 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state except upon
direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by direction
of the governing body shall conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(1999 Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 5/11-301
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street,
any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street, any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of
traffic or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising. No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so
placed, maintained, allowed to remain or be displayed upon either public or
private property in such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the
movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic-control device, sign or
signal.
(1999 Code, § 24-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.19 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1999 Code, § 24-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.20 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the village any sign, signal,
marking or device other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by the Village
Board or the Illinois Department of Transportation, which purports to be or is
an mutation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal in view of any street or highway, and it shall be unlawful to place
or maintain any sign which hides from view any lawful traffic-control device.
It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any flashing or rotating beacon of
light in view of any street or highway. (See
Chapter 94, Chapters
130 through
134 and Chapter
155 of this code of ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 24-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.21 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(1999 Code, § 24-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-206
§ 70.22 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department which shall be visible from all distances of 100 to 600 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a
motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use any
siren upon a bicycle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector or conforming to specifications
prescribed by the state on each pedal, visible from the front and rear of the
bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle provided. The requirements of
this division (E) may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least
three-sixteenths of an inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate
as clearly as possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or
rims of such bicycle and which reflective materials may be of the same color on
both the front and rear tire or rim. Such reflectors shall conform to
specifications prescribed by the state.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(1999 Code, § 24-2-8) (Ord. 09/12/2000-1, passed 9-12-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1507
CHAPTER 71: VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   [Intentionally omitted]
   
71.02   [Intentionally omitted]
   
71.03   [Intentionally omitted]
Neighborhood Electric Vehicles
   
71.15   Definition
   
71.16   Operation
   
71.17   Driving under the influence
   
71.18   Village license
   
71.19   Children
   
71.20   Designated seating position
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 71.02 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 71.03 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLES
§ 71.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLE. A self-propelled, electronically powered
four-wheeled motor vehicle (or a self-propelled, gasoline-powered four-wheeled
motor vehicle with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters) which
is capable of attaining in one mile a speed of more than 20 mph, but not more
than 25 mph, and which conforms to federal regulations under 49 C.F.R. §
571.500, attached hereto as Exhibit A and made a part of this section as if set
out fully herein.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-1) (Ord. 11/12/08-1, passed 11-12-2008)
§ 71.16 OPERATION.
   (A)   Neighborhood electric vehicles may be operated only on the streets of
the village, where the posted speed limit is no more than 30 mph. This division
(A) does not prohibit a neighborhood electric vehicle from crossing a road or
street at an intersection where the road or street has a posted speed limit of
more than 30 mph.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-2)
   (B)   Subject to the restrictions in this subchapter, operation of
neighborhood electric vehicles is allowed on all roadways solely under the
jurisdiction of the village and may not be operated on roads under the
jurisdiction of more than one unit of government, unless both units have
approved the use of said vehicles.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-3)
   (C)   A person may not operate a neighborhood electric vehicle upon any
street, highway or roadway in this state unless he or she has a valid Illinois
driver’s license issued in his or her name by the Secretary of State.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-4)
   (D)   No person operating a neighborhood electric vehicle shall make a
direct crossing upon or across any highway under the jurisdiction of the state,
toll road, interstate highway, or controlled access highway in this state.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-5)
   (E)   No neighborhood electric vehicle may be operated on a roadway unless,
at a minimum, it has the following: brakes; a steering apparatus; tires; a
rearview mirror; a slow-moving emblem on the rear of the neighborhood electric
vehicle (as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle Code); a
headlight that emits a white light (visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
front); a tail lamp (that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear); brake lights; and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, a
neighborhood electric vehicle shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted
as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. The Chief of
Police of the village shall make the final determination whether the above
requirements have been met by performing an inspection pursuant to §
71.18.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-6)
(Ord. 11/12/08-1, passed 11-12-2008; Ord. 2018-32, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty,
see §
71.99
§ 71.17 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a neighborhood
electric vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to 625 ILCS
5/11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-7) (Ord. 11/12/08-1, passed 11-12-2008)
§ 71.18 VILLAGE LICENSE.
   No neighborhood electric vehicle may be operated within the village limits
unless it displays a village license. Application for a license may be obtained
from the Village Clerk. Vehicles may be licensed upon receipt of a complete
application, presentation of proof of insurance, satisfactory inspection of the
vehicle performed by the Chief of Police of the village and payment of the
license fee of $25.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-8) (Ord. 11/12/08-1, passed 11-12-2008; Ord. 2018-32, passed
7-10-2018)
§ 71.19 CHILDREN.
   No child four years of age or less or 40 pounds or less may be a passenger
is a neighborhood electric vehicle. Children greater than four years of age to
eight years of age, and who are approximately 40 to 80 pounds and under 57
inches tall must ride in a seat belt positioning booster seat.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-9) (Ord. 11/12/08-1, passed 11-12-2008)
§ 71.20 DESIGNATED SEATING POSITION.
   No person may operate or be a passenger in a neighborhood electric vehicle
unless they occupy a designated seating position within the vehicle. Without
limitation, designating seating positions do not include such locations as
fenders or jump seats.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-11) (Ord. 11/12/08-1, passed 11-12-2008)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
71.03 on the village roadways, school zones and Main Street, shall be fined not
less than $50, nor more than $150 for each offense.
      (2)   The Police Department of the village is hereby directed to
implement and enforce these traffic regulations pursuant to its usual and
customary ordinance enforcement procedures.
      (3)   Those in violation of this chapter may also be in violating of, and
subject to, penalties of state law.
(Ord. 08/13/13-1, passed 8-13-2013)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
Parking Rules Generally
   
72.01   Time limit parking
   
72.02   Parking for sale or repair
   
72.03   Private property
   
72.04   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.05   [Intentionally omitted]
   
72.06   Load limits
   
72.07   Towing cars away
   
72.08   Parking violations
   
72.09   Prima facie proof
   
72.10   Snow routes
   
72.11   Parking tickets; state statute
   
72.12   Parking limitations; gross weight
Public Parking in Business District
   
72.25   Title
   
72.26   Purpose
   
72.27   Definitions
   
72.28   Prohibition
   
72.29   [Intentionally omitted]
   
72.30   Signs
 
   
72.99   Penalty
PARKING RULES GENERALLY
§ 72.01 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-3) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; or
         (l)   In any alley that is open and maintained.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers):
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers):
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking; or
         (c)   In yellow zones.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   
Chapter 75, Schedules I and
II shall list all applicable no parking zones.
   (D)   Truck parking prohibited: no Second Division vehicle licensed for “F”
classification or higher shall be parked on any street, alley or any public
parking lot not so designated for public parking of vehicles described herein
in the village except temporary parking for loading and unloading purposes. A
vehicle described in this division (D) shall include either the tractor or
trailer of such unit.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-4) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/3-815
§ 72.05 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 72.06 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established “gross load limits” on
certain village streets. The term “gross load limit” shall mean the total
weight of a vehicle and the load it is carrying. The specified streets and the
load limits are hereby listed in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (B)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon any
street where the operation is prohibited by this section and where such signs
of prohibition are posted, except that a vehicle may be driven on such street
for not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose of making
deliveries or picking up loads.
   (C)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not include pickup trucks, trucks
operated by the village maintenance and repairs on the street or the operation
of a vehicle owned by the U.S. government or state while on lawful business of
these agencies.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-6) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car, boat, trailer or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 hours.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-7)
§ 72.08 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance
prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area or restricting the length of
time a vehicle may be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against
him or her for such illegal parking by paying to the village a fine.
   (B)   Removal - time limit.
      (1)   Any vehicle illegally parked for a period in excess of 24 hours may
be removed by a towing service authorized by the Police Department of the
municipality.
      (2)   In any emergency, any vehicle may be removed by any means when
authorized by the Police Department of the municipality.
   (C)   Village parking lots. No person shall park a motor vehicle on a
village parking lot unattended for more than five consecutive days.
   (D)   Parking violation ticket. The parking violation ticket shall be as
follows:
(1999 Code, § 24-6-8) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked or operated is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the vehicle at the time of such violation.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-9)
§ 72.10 SNOW ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on the following designated streets
at any time within 18 hours after a snowfall of three inches or more, unless
the street has been cleared of snow.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PARKING TICKETS; STATE STATUTE.
   (A)   The Village Board intends to utilize 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5 and the
procedure set forth therein.
   (B)   The appropriate authorities are hereby authorized to utilize the
statute and the procedure set forth therein.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-11)
§ 72.12 PARKING LIMITATIONS; GROSS WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful in the village for any vehicle having a gross vehicle
weight (including vehicle and maximum load) of 12,001 pounds or more to park on
the roadway or any portion of the right-of-way in any place of the village,
except for the purposes of making deliveries to businesses located within the
village between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 94-107, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
72.99
PUBLIC PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 72.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Moweaqua Business District Public
Parking Regulatory Ordinance”.
(Ord. 92-101, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 72.26 PURPOSE.
   The citizens and public policy mandate the necessity of regulating parking
in the downtown business district of the village.
(Ord. 92-101, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 72.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motor vehicle including, but not limited
to, semi-tractors, semi-trailers, trailers, trucks and motorcycles as defined
in the 625 ILCS 5/95-1/2.
   MOWEAQUA BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area of U.S. Route #51 and Main Street
extending one block north, south and east of the intersection of U.S. Route #51
and Main Street, and also extending west on Main Street from the intersection
of U.S. Route #51 and main street to the old Illinois Central Railroad right-
of-way, and also, one-half block east on the south side of Elm Street, all
located in Moweaqua, Shelby County, Illinois.
   OFFICER. Any duly appointed police officer, state police officer, sheriff or
sheriff’s agent.
(Ord. 92-101, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 72.28 PROHIBITION.
   No vehicle shall be parked within the downtown business district of the
village for any period in excess of two hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
until 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 92-101, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.29 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 72.30 SIGNS.
   The authorities of the village are hereby authorized and directed to post at
least four signs in said downtown business district giving notice of these
parking regulations in accordance with 625 ILCS 95-1/2/11-208.
(Ord. 92-101, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of a regulation prohibiting
parking a vehicle in a designated area or restricting the length of time a
vehicle may be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or
her for such illegal parking by paying to the village $10 for each such offense
and $15 for the second offense within six months. Such payment may be made at
the Village Hall and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received and
such money shall be promptly turned over to the Treasurer to be credited to the
General Fund. The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to
refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved for at
least five days.
      (2)   Provided, this division (B) shall not apply to persons parking a
vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police and
Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed or so
as to block an emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this division (B)
apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct
traffic in any street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on
an arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to
remove a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police
Department.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-8)
   (C)   A person convicted of a violation of any provision of §
72.12 shall be fined not less than $30 nor more than $500.
   (D)   If a violator shall fail or refuse to pay said parking ticket fine
within said 48 hours, then in that event, an officer may issue process as
recited herein and for a conviction thereof by a court of competent
jurisdiction, a fine may be imposed of no less than $25 and no more than $100.
(Ord. 92-101, passed 4-13-1992)
CHAPTER 73: ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND DERELICT VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Village policy
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Declaration of nuisance
   
73.04   Violation
   
73.05   Immediate removal of vehicles by towing without notice
   
73.06   Removal of vehicles by towing without notice
   
73.07   Possession of vehicle by other party; towing
   
73.08   Police responsibilities
   
73.09   Unknown owner
   
73.10   Identifying and tracing vehicle
   
73.11   Reclaimed vehicles; expenses
   
73.12   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
73.13   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles without notice
   
73.14   Police record for disposed vehicle
   
73.15   Public sales proceeds
   
73.16   Liability
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 VILLAGE POLICY.
   The village finds that abandoned, inoperable and derelict vehicles:
constitute a safety hazard and a public nuisance; are detrimental to the
health, safety and welfare of the general public by harboring disease,
providing breeding places for vermin, inviting plundering, creating fire
hazards and presenting physical dangers to children and others; produce scenic
blights which degrade the environment and adversely affect land values and the
proper maintenance and continuing development of the village.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-1) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle
incapable of being driven in its condition or any vehicle that has not been
moved or used for seven consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   DERELICT VEHICLE. Any inoperable, unregistered, discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its character as a substantial property and
left unattended without justification on the owner’s land contrary to the
public policy expressed in §
73.01.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   HISTORIC VEHICLE. Any operable vehicle over 25 years of age.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated or in a condition, such that the vehicle is incapable of being
driven under its own motor power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a
motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven
under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations.
   OWNER. An owner, registered owner, lessee, lien holder or any person
substantially in control of the vehicle. A person who allows or suffers an
abandoned, derelict or inoperable motor vehicle to be or remain on said
person’s real property in violation of this chapter is deemed to be
substantially in control of the vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-2) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 04/10/2012-1,
passed 4-10-2012)
§ 73.03 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All abandoned, derelict and inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or
private property in view of the general public, are hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-3) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance under this code, for
an owner of an abandoned, inoperable derelict vehicle:
   (A)   To cause, permit, aid or abet, bringing such a vehicle into the
village;
   (B)   To cause, permit, aid or abet, such a vehicle to be or remain in the
village;
   (C)   To cause, permit, aid or abet, the relocation within the village, of
such a vehicle which is the subject of a notice to abate; and
   (D)   To cause, permit, aid or abet, the return to the village, such a
vehicle which is the subject of a notice to abate.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-4) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 IMMEDIATE REMOVAL OF VEHICLES BY TOWING WITHOUT NOTICE.
   Any village law enforcement official shall have the power to authorize the
removal of vehicles by towing under the following circumstances. When an
abandoned, inoperable derelict unattended, wrecked, burned or partially
dismantled vehicle is: creating a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to the highway; or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of
traffic; then its immediate removal from the highway or private property
adjacent to the highway by a towing service may be authorized by a law
enforcement official without notice. If, in the discretion of the law
enforcement official, the hazard poses an immediate threat of death, bodily
injury or property damage, the vehicle may be immediately removed by any mean
(1999 Code, § 24-7-6) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES BY TOWING WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   With notice, any village law enforcement official will have the power
to authorize the removal of vehicles by towing under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Any abandoned, derelict or inoperable motor vehicles and/or parts,
whether on public or private property and in view of the general public;
      (2)   When a vehicle is abandoned on a highway within the village, for a
period of ten hours or more. Such a vehicle is deemed a traffic hazard and
constitutes an immediate threat of death, bodily injury or property damages; or
      (3)   When a vehicle is abandoned on private property and a complaint is
registered by the property owner.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-7)
   (B)   (1)   Any vehicle specified in division (A) above may be towed and/or
removed if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   A notice is sent to the registered owner and/or person in
control of the inoperable motor vehicle and/or parts informing them they must
dispose of the vehicle and/or parts within seven days from the issuance of the
notice; and
         (b)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail and shall contain an
opportunity for a hearing prior to the removal.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to any motor vehicle that is kept
within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles or to a motor
vehicle on the premises or place engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor
vehicles.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-8)
(Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 04/10/2012-1, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 73.07 POSSESSION OF VEHICLE BY OTHER PARTY; TOWING.
   Where an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this municipality
who is not the owner, lien holder or other legally entitle person of the
vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Police Department when the
vehicle is within the corporate limits of the municipality. Upon receipt of
such notification, the Police Department or designated representative shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow, as set forth in §
73.99, until the vehicle is claimed by the owner, lien holder, or any other
person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed of as
provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-9) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-202
§ 73.08 POLICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided herein, the Police
Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing by
color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series
name, body style, vehicle identification number and license plate year and
number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and
hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the
name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-10) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-204
§ 73.09 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the owner,
lien holder or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor vehicle
registration records of the state to be searched by a directed communication to
the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership
information.
   (B)   The Police Department authorizing the impoundment shall cause the
stolen motor vehicle files of the state police to be searched by a directed
communication to the state police for stolen or wanted information of the
vehicle. The information determined from these record searches shall be used by
the Police Department in sending notification by certified mail to the owner,
lien holder or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is held,
requesting a disposition to be made and setting forth public sale information.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-11) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-205
§ 73.10 IDENTIFYING AND TRACING VEHICLE.
   When the registered owner, lien holder or other person legally entitle to
the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from
the registration files of this state or from the registration files of a
foreign state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the state
police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner, lien holder or other
person legally entitle to the possession of the vehicle. The information
obtained by the state police shall be immediately forwarded to the Police
Department having custody of the vehicle for notification purposes as set forth
in §
73.05.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-12) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-206
§ 73.11 RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided in §
73.07, the owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to its
possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department proof
of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle
shall be released to the owner, lien holder or other legally entitled person
under this section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-13) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-207
§ 73.12 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle seven years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of 30 days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police
Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
auction to a person licensed as an automatic parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap
processor under 625 ILCS 5. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be
posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the
sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place to be
sent by certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder or other person
known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
shall not be required.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-14) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
§ 73.13 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner, lien holder or
other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or
unclaimed vehicle of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any
means provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided for in
§
73.07 without notice to any person whose identity can be determined.
   (B)   Old car. When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this code, it shall be kept in custody for a minimum
of ten days for the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner
and lien holder and contracting the registered owner and lien holder by the
U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of disposition; an
examination of the state police stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted
information. (At the expiration of the ten-day period without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, lien holder
or other legally entitled person, the Chief of Police shall authorize the
disposal of the vehicle as junk.)
   (C)   Antique vehicle. A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may,
however, be sold to a person desiring to restore it.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-15) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 04/10/2012-1,
passed 4-10-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-209
§ 73.14 POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner, lien holder or other legally
entitled person or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise
disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction shall be
maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of
sale or disposal.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-16) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-210
§ 73.15 PUBLIC SALES PROCEEDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Police Department and disposed of as set
forth in this code, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the
municipal treasury.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-17) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-211
§ 73.16 LIABILITY.
   A law enforcement officer or agency, towing service owner, operator or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner or his or her legal
representative, lien holder, or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle with the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed as
a provided by this code.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-18) (Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-213
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, violation of this chapter shall
carry with it a fine of between $75 and $750. As a further remedy, the village
is hereby authorized to request from a court of competent jurisdiction any
equitable or injunctive relief, which will abate any nuisance under this
chapter, including an order to refrain from further notation of this chapter,
and to recover from the owner all costs and attorney fees associated with
abating the nuisance or to take any other action allowed under this code of
ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-5)
   (B)   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of this
chapter, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750,
and shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the abandoned or
unclaimed vehicle and pay all towing and storage charges pursuant to this
chapter.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-19)
(Ord. 09/10/2002-2, passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 04/10/2012-1, passed 4-10-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-214
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Yield intersections
      
III.   Special markings; speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following streets are hereby designated as stop intersections, to-wit:
Through Street Stop Street - Direction
Through Street     Stop Street - Direction
Main St. (Rte. 51) All intersecting streets
E. Main St.        All intersecting streets
W. Main St.        All intersecting streets
Pine St.           N. East St. (south bd.)
Pine St.           N. Hanover St. (north bd.)
Pine St.           N. Macon St. (north bd.)
Pine St.           N. Shelby St. (both)
Putnam St.         Cherry St. (both)
N. Railroad St.    Cedar St. (east bd.)
N. Railroad St.    Madison St. (east bd.)
Wall St.           S. Railroad St. (both)
Four-Way Stops Stop Street
Four-Way Stops Stop Street
E. Cedar St.   N. Hanover St.
E. Cedar St.   N. Putnam St.
E. Locust St.  N. Hanover St.
E. Locust St.  N. Putnam St.
S. Macon St.   E. Warren St.
Pine St.       Putnam St.
Putnam St.     E. Warren St.
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. A, § 24-2-9) (Ord. 111, passed 11-13-1990; Ord. 96-
109, passed 10-8-1996; Ord. 97-111, passed 11-12-1997; Ord. 99-115, passed 12-
14-1999; Ord. 9/12/2000-1, passed 9-12-2000; Ord. 10/10/2000-3, passed 10-10-
2000; Ord. 08/14/07-2, passed 8-14-2007; Ord. 07/09/13-2, passed 7-9-2013)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following streets are hereby designated as yield right-of-way
intersections, to-wit:
Through Streets Yield Right-of-Way (Direction)
Through Streets Yield Right-of-Way (Direction)
Cherry St.      Hanover St. (both)
Cherry St.      Macon St. (both)
Cherry St.      Plum St. (both)
East St.        Cedar St. (both)
East St.        Chestnut St. (both)
East St.        Elm St. (both)
East St.        Locust St. (both)
East St.        South St. (both)
Franklin St.    W. Main St. (east bd.)
Gorden St.      East St. (north bd.)
Gorden St.      Pinkston Dr. (north bd.)
Hanover St.     Chestnut St. (both)
Hanover St.     Elm St. (both)
Macon St.       Cedar St. (both)
Macon St.       Chestnut St. (both)
Macon St.       Elm St. (both)
Macon St.       Locust St. (both)
Macon St.       Wall St. (both)
Madison St.     Franklin St. (both)
Ponting St.     Cedar St. (west bd.)
Ponting St.     Madison St. (west bd.)
Ponting St.     W. Main St. (west bd.)
Putnam St.      Cherry St. (east bd.)
Putnam St.      Chestnut St. (both)
Putnam St.      Elm St. (both)
Putnam St.      Gorden St. (west bd.)
Putnam St.      South St. (both)
Putnam St.      Wall St. (both)
Railroad St.    W. Main St. (east bd.)
Shelby St.      Chestnut St. (both)
Shelby St.      Cedar St. (both)
Shelby St.      Elm St. (both)
Shelby St.      Locust St. (both)
South St.       Hanover St. (both)
South St.       Macon St. (both)
Wall St.        Hanover St. (both)
Warren St.      East St. (both)
Warren St.      Hanover St. (both)
Warren St.      Plum St. (both)
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. C, § 24-2-9) (Ord. 96-110, passed 10-8-1996; Ord. 9/
12/2000-1, passed 9-12-2000; Ord. 10/10/2000-3, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 08/14/
07-2, passed 8-14-2007; Ord. 2019-22, passed 12-10-2019)
SCHEDULE III. SPECIAL MARKINGS; SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Generally. The following streets are hereby to be specially marked as
indicated:
 
Streets Markings                                      Speed Limits
N. Putnam St. bounded by Pine St. on the south to the 30 mph speed limit signs
village limit on the north
Putnam St., Gorden St., E. Main St., W. Main St.,     30 mph speed limit signs
Ponting St.
N. Main St., S. Main St.                              35 mph speed limit signs
 
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule, for which no
other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
      (2)   (a)   Any person violating the speed limit restrictions of 30 mph
and 35 mph as set out in division (A) above on the village roadways, school
zones and Main Street, shall be fined not less than $120 for each offense.
         (b)   The Police Department of the village is hereby directed to
implement and enforce these traffic regulations pursuant to its usual and
customary ordinance enforcement procedures.
         (c)   Those in violation of this schedule may also be in violation of,
and subject to, penalties of state law.
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. D, § 24-2-9) (Ord. 9/12/2000-1, passed 9-12-2000; Ord.
10/10/2000-3, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 08/13/13-1, passed 8-13-2013; Ord. 2022-
12, passed 12-13-2022)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
      
II.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
72.04(C), the following streets are hereby declared to be no parking zones, to-
wit:
Street - Side Location
Street - Side                          Location
North south alley way parallel and     From West Birch, through Lake to West
immediately to the west of Main St.    Cherry
(both sides)
First half of 100 block of E. Elm St.  2 hrs. max. from the hours of 8:00 a.m.
                                       until 8:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday
Main St. (both sides)                  From 150 feet north of Pine St.
Main St. (both sides)                  From 75 feet south of Pine St.
100 block of E. Main St.               2 hrs. max. from the hours of 8:00 a.m.
                                       until 8:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday
100 block of N. Main St.               2 hrs. max. from the hours of 8:00 a.m.
                                       until 8:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday
100 block of S. Main St.               2 hrs. max. from the hours of 8:00 a.m.
                                       until 8:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday
100 block of W. Main St.               2 hrs. max. from the hours of 8:00 a.m.
                                       until 8:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday
   Exception to the 2-hour Main St. For funerals at Seitz Funeral Home
parking
                                       Business owners in the downtown area
                                      shall receive one parking permit per
                                       business to use one parking place
                                       immediately outside their business
N. Putnam St. (both sides)             1,800 ft. north of the intersection of
                                       Gordon Ave. and Putnam St.
First half of 100 block of E. Wall St. 2 hrs. max. from the hours of 8:00 a.m.
                                       until 8:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. E) (Ord. 95-109, passed 9-12-1995; Ord. 05/08/2001-1,
passed 5-8-2001; Ord. 07/10/2001-1, passed 7-10-2001; Ord. 12/09/2008-2, passed
12-9-2008; Ord. 05/12/2009-2, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 06/08/2010-2, passed 6-8-
2010; Ord. 11/09/2010-3, passed 11-9-2010; Ord. 03/11/14-2, passed 3-11-2014;
Ord. 07/08/14-2, passed 7-8-2014; Ord. 09/09/14-1, passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 2019-
05, passed 3-12-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. SNOW ROUTES.
   Any vehicle found on the streets named below, during the conditions listed
below, shall be towed and impounded at the owner’s expense, and/or the owner
may be cited with an ordinance violation under this Schedule II.
 
Streets     Snowfall/ice Accumulation Amount
N. Main St. 2 in. or greater
S. Main St. 2 in. or greater
E. Main St. 2 in. or greater
W. Main St. 2 in. or greater
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. F) (Ord. 06/12/2007-10, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see
§
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS
      
93.   PARKS
      
94.   STREET REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Regulations
   
90.001   Short title
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Injury to property
   
90.004   Manner of keeping
   
90.005   Keeping barking dogs and crying cats
   
90.006   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.007   Exhibiting wild or vicious animals
   
90.008   Health hazard
   
90.009   Limitation on number of dogs and cats kept
   
90.010   Animals and the like in village
Dogs
   
90.025   Definitions
   
90.026   Dogs to be inoculated and to have name tags affixed to collars
   
90.027   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
90.028   Duration of inoculation
   
90.029   Specifications for tag
   
90.030   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
90.031   Restraint of dogs
   
90.032   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation of
owner or keeper
   
90.033   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment
   
90.034   Obstructing poundmaster
   
90.035   Impoundment of dogs which have been bitten persons
   
90.036   Impoundment
   
90.037   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.038   Village pound designated
   
90.039   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
90.040   Dangerous dog; female dogs at large
   
90.041   Female dogs with other dogs
Vicious and Dangerous Dogs
   
90.055   Definitions
   
90.056   Unlawful to maintain
   
90.057   Owner’s responsibility
   
90.058   Dog permitted to leave premises
   
90.059   Injunction
   
90.060   Liability of owner or dog attacking or injuring person
   
90.061   Right of entry; inspections
Cats
   
90.075   Definitions
   
90.076   Vaccination against rabies required; vaccination tag
   
90.077   License required
   
90.078   License tag
   
90.079   Information required; receipt; tag
   
90.080   Cats running at large while in heat
   
90.081   Wearing of collars; removal of license tag
   
90.082   Public nuisance
   
90.083   Cats injuring or destroying property of others
   
90.084   License fee
   
90.085   Hobby kennel or cattery permit
   
90.086   Minimum standards of sanitation
   
90.087   Disposition of fees
   
90.088   Term of license
   
90.089   Enforcement
   
90.090   Poisoning or injuring cats
   
90.091   Duty to place cat under observation; when required; procedure
   
90.092   Holding impounded cats
   
90.093   Shelter fee; release from shelter
   
90.094   Warden’s duties
   
90.095   Warden’s records and reports
   
90.096   Impounding time limit
   
90.097   Receiving cats at shelter; registration
   
90.098   Interference with capture of cats
Beekeeping
   
90.110   Definitions
   
90.111   License required
   
90.112   Maximum number of licenses issued
   
90.113   Duty not to create nuisance
   
90.114   Compliance with state law
   
90.115   Maintenance of colonies
   
90.116   Revocation of license
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 90.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Animal Control Code”.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions see 510 ILCS 5/1
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than a human, which may be affected by rabies.
(510 ILCS 5/2.02)
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
Village Board to perform duties as assigned by the Mayor to effectuate this
code.
(510 ILCS 5/2.03)
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the property
of his or her owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
(510 ILCS 5/2.05)
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places.
(510 ILCS 5/15(2))
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the State of
Illinois.
(510 ILCS 5/2.06)
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11)
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
(510 ILCS 5/2.12)
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the Department.
(510 ILCS 5/2.13)
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
(510 ILCS 5/2.14)
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
(510 ILCS 5/2.15)
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in a dog or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has a dog in his or her care, or who acts as its custodian, or
who knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him
or her.
(510 ILCS 5/2.16)
   POUND. Any facility approved by the Administrator and licensed as such by
the Department of Agriculture for the purpose of enforcing this code and used
as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted dogs or other
animals.
(510 ILCS 5/2.18)
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the Department
under this code.
(510 ILCS 5/2.19)
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this code if he or
she is controlled by a leash; at “heel” beside a responsible person; within a
vehicle being driven or parked on the streets; or within the property limits of
his or her owner or keeper.
   SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of June
through September.
   SHELTER. As it applies to dogs, shall mean a moisture-proof structure of
suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow retention of body heat, made of
durable material with a solid floor raised at least two inches from the ground
and with the entrance covered by a flexible, wind-proof material. Such
structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to
provide insulation and protection against cold and dampness.
   UNOWNED STRAY DOG. Any dog not on the premises of the owner or keeper or
under control by leash or other recognized control methods, and which does not,
at that time and place, bear a current rabies inoculation tag issued pursuant
to the provisions of this code, by means of which, by reference to records of
current registration certificates, the Administrator or his or her deputies or
assistants may determine the name and address of the owner or keeper thereof,
or some other means of identification from which the Administrator or his or
her deputies or assistants may directly determine the name and address of the
owner or keeper thereof.
(510 ILCS 5/2)
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who harbors said
animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal or any bird of
prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(510 ILCS 5/24)
(1999 Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 90.003 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a
dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway or
private lands or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises
and break, bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub,
tree or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   Waste products accumulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit a dog or cat to be on property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person unless such person has in his or her immediate
possession an appropriate device for scooping excrement and an appropriate
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located, upon
property owned or possessed by such person. This section shall not apply to a
person who is visually or physically handicapped.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   Pens, yards or runs. All pens, yards, runs or other structures wherein
any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily cleaned and
kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall
be securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair
and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 KEEPING BARKING DOGS AND CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Harboring. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in
the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions of complaint. Whenever any person shall complain to the
Police Department that a dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps or a cat
which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the village, the
Police Department shall notify the owner of said dog or cat that a complaint
has been received and that the person should take whatever steps are necessary
to alleviate the howling, yelping or crying.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-5) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or maliciously inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture,
abuse or cruelly beat, strike or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or
neglect, cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering,
injury or death to any animal, whether such animal belongs to such person or to
another, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals. Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the County
Animal Control Facility for proper disposal.
   (B)   Food and shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any
animal to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable
water, shade or shelter, or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal
in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather, or to carry any such animal in or
upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner. The terms used in this section
shall comply with §
90.002.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6
§ 90.007 EXHIBITING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his or her premises any wild or vicious animal as described in this chapter for
display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This
section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal
exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet, unless a permit is granted by the Department of Natural
Resources of the state.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the village. Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may
be seized by any police officer or humane officer and upon establishment to the
satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the vicious character of
said animal, it may be killed by a police officer or humane officer; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to animals under the control of a
law enforcement or military agency nor to animals which are kept for the
protection of property, provided that such animals are restrained by a leash or
chain, cage, fence or other adequate means from contact with the general public
or with persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied permission of
the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The licensing authority may issue a temporary permit for the keeping,
care and protection of any infant animal native to this area which has been
deemed to be homeless.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-7) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 HEALTH HAZARD.
   The Mayor shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting the keeping of
any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to be a nuisance or pose a health
hazard to the general public.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 90.009 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS KEPT.
   (A)   Nuisance.
      (1)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the village
for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created.
      (2)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance. The terms “dog” and “cat” shall be construed
as provided in §
90.002.
   (B)   Limitation; exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
two dogs and/or two cats within the village; however, in combination the total
number of domestic animals shall not exceed three, with the exception that a
litter of pups, a litter of kittens or a portion of a litter may be kept for a
period of time not exceeding three months from birth.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or
boarding.
      (3)   Any village resident who has received a state license may petition
the Village Board to be excepted from said limitations upon terms and
conditions as may be imposed by the Village Board, including how long the
exception may be allowed and the animal number limitations. Any exception must
be agreed upon by no less than a majority vote of the Board, and may be
rescinded by a majority vote of the Board at any time.
   (C)   Kennels. In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be
located closer than 200 feet from the nearest dwelling on an adjacent lot, and
at least 100 feet from any lot line. (See
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 01/08/2002-1, passed 1-8-2002; Ord. 2017-3, passed
4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 ANIMALS AND THE LIKE IN VILLAGE.
   (A)   Certain prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter no
person shall keep within the village any cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine,
goats, chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese, rabbits or other livestock.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply in areas of the village that
are zoned agricultural in nature nor shall this section apply to livestock
brought in to the village for the purpose of being shipped out of the village.
   (C)   Powers of Police Chief. The Police Chief shall have the power to issue
an order prohibiting the keeping of any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to
pose a health hazard to the general public.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-10) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-
9
DOGS
§ 90.025 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall comply with §
90.002 unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 90.026 DOGS TO BE INOCULATED AND TO HAVE NAME TAGS AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   (1)   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies.
      (2)   Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered
tag evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by
the dog.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the dog
to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.027 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The inoculation of dogs required by §
90.026(A) shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or
her profession in this state.
   (B)   Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to the
owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact and shall also deliver to the
owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the collar
or harness of the dog, which tag shall also certify to the fact of the
inoculation against rabies.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 90.028 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
90.027 shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in which
the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of time as may
be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 90.029 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
90.027 shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 90.030 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the Police Department
or village employee, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his
or her certificate issued under the provisions of §
90.027, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled
by him or her.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 90.031 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large, off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control as defined in
§
90.002.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9
§ 90.032 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE OR UNLICENSED DOGS; CITATION OF
OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor to take up and
impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that purpose, any
dog found running at large or unlicensed in the village, contrary to any of the
provisions of this chapter or other regulations of the village.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to the designated employee(s), such dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of such employee(s), but the employee(s) may cite the owner of such
dog to answer charges of violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any dog permitted to run at large within the village is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   (D)   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within seven days shall
be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the poundkeeper.
   (E)   The village may establish a reasonable fee by motion for each day that
a dog is housed in the pound.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/10
§ 90.033 NOTICE AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding and where the owner or keeper of such dog is disclosed
by any tax or license tag worn by it or is otherwise known to the officers
impounding the same, the designated official shall make reasonable attempts to
contact the owner, informing him or her of the impounding of his or her dog and
shall cite the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of violation of
this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-9)
§ 90.034 OBSTRUCTING POUNDMASTER.
   Any person(s) who shall bring any dog into the village for the purpose of
causing the same to be impounded or any person who shall resist, hinder or
molest the poundmaster or dogcatcher or police officer while engaged upon the
duties imposed upon them by this subchapter or any person who shall break into
the dog pound and release or deliver any dog therefrom without having first
paid the fees herein specified, or any owner or keeper of any dog who shall
permit any dog to run at large within the corporate limits of the village, upon
conviction of any part of this subchapter shall be fined according to §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-10) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.035 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BEEN BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person
so as to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded
and kept separated from other dogs for ten days.
      (2)   If, during that period, such dog develops symptoms of illness, a
veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its condition. If the symptoms
disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of rabies, such dog shall be
destroyed in such a manner, however, as to preserve intact the head, which
shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the diagnostic laboratory
of the Department of Agriculture.
      (3)   In case such dog cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be
shot, care being taken to preserve the head intact which shall thereupon be
immediately detached and be delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the
Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   (1)   If, at the expiration of the ten days no symptoms of rabies have
developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this chapter; provided,
however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting a person shall have
previously bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely destroyed by the
poundkeeper.\
      (2)   After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten or
otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any
circumstances, permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-11)
§ 90.036 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this subchapter may employ
any method found practical and humane in capturing and impounding any dog found
running at large.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-12)
§ 90.037 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The owner of any animal impounded under this subchapter may redeem the same
by paying all the costs and charges assessed, if any, that have accrued up to
the time of making redemption and on paying the same; it shall be the duty of
the authorities to release the animal from the pound and deliver it to its
owner, or certify the release thereof to any county authority, having,
possession of the animal.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-13)
§ 90.038 VILLAGE POUND DESIGNATED.
   The Village Board shall designate a village pound.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-14)
§ 90.039 DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any dog which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet of any
person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal,
plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and impounded
and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under this code.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-15) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.040 DANGEROUS DOG; FEMALE DOGS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fierce or dangerous dog
or of any female dog, while in heat, to run at large within the limits of this
village.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-16) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 FEMALE DOGS WITH OTHER DOGS.
   No person in control or possession of a female dog or permitting the same to
remain upon his or her premises, shall permit any such female dog, while in
heat, to consort with any other dog or dogs in an indecent manner in any place
of public view, whether upon his or her own or any other premises.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-17) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, 65 ILCS 5/11.20-9
VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the
enclosure. Such ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure.
   FOUND TO BE VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   The Administrator, an animal control warden or a law enforcement
officer has conducted an investigation and made a finding in writing that the
dog is a vicious dog as defined in division (1)(a) of the definition for
vicious dog below and, based on that finding, the Administrator, an animal
control warden or the Director has declared in writing that the dog is a
vicious dog; or
      (2)   The circuit court has found the dog to be a vicious dog as defined
in division (1)(a) of the definition for vicious dog below and has entered an
order based on that finding.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the public pound in the village or town
where the vicious dog is found.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   (a)   Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property;
         (b)   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals;
         (c)   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristic and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks
upon human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or
with special equipment;
         (d)   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic
animal without provocation; and
         (e) Any individual dog which has been found to be a “dangerous dog”
upon three separate occasions.
      (2)   No dog shall be deemed VICIOUS if it bites, attacks or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement
or guard duties. VICIOUS dogs shall not be classified in a manner that is
specific as to breed.
      (3)   If a dog is found to be a VICIOUS dog, the dog shall be subject to
enclosure.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 90.056 UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog; or
      (2)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length, and
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the
dog.
   (B)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the animal control warden or the
police, and shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for destruction by
lethal injection.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.057 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the
circuit court in the county in which the animal was impounded within seven
working days, the dog may be humanely dispatched. A dog found to be a vicious
dog shall not be released to the owner until the Administrator, an animal
control warden or the Director approves the enclosure as defined in this
section.
   (B)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 90.058 DOG PERMITTED TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   (B)   (1)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for
the physically handicapped, and sentry, guard or police-owned dogs are exempt
from this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the
dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this
section, each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in
accordance with this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner of such
exempted dog to notify the Administrator of changes of address. In the case of
a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the Administrator advised of the
location where such dog will be stationed.
      (2)   The Administrator shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a
categorized list of such exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify such
departments of any address changes reported to him or her.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.059 INJUNCTION.
   (A)   The Administrator, the Village Attorney or any citizen of the village
in which a dangerous dog or other animal exists may file a complaint to enjoin
all persons from maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same, and to
enjoin the owner of such dog or other animal from permitting same to leave his
or her premises when not under control by leash or other recognized control
methods.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a complaint in the circuit court, the court, if
satisfied that this nuisance may exist, shall grant a preliminary injunction
with bond in such amount as the court may determine enjoining the defendant
from maintaining such nuisance.
   (C)   If the existence of the nuisance is established, the owner of such dog
or other animal shall be in violation of this code, and in addition the court
shall enter an order restraining the owner from maintaining such nuisance and
may order that such dog or other animal be humanely dispatched.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/17
§ 90.060 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR DOG ATTACKING OR INJURING PERSON.
   If a dog, or other animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any
person who is peaceably conducting himself or herself in any place where he or
she may lawfully be, the owner of such dog or other animal is liable in damages
to such person for the full amount of the injury sustained.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/16
§ 90.061 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter and
making inspections hereunder, the Administrator, or his or her authorized
representative, or any officer of the law may enter upon private premises to
apprehend a straying dog or other animal, a dangerous dog or other animal, or a
dog or other animal thought to be infected with rabies.
   (B)   If, after request therefor, the owner of such dog or other animal
shall refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the officer, the owner shall
be in violation of this code.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9, 510 ILCS 5/17
510 ILCS 5/24
CATS
§ 90.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board of Health of the county.
   CAT. Shall apply to both male and female cats.
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH. The Department of Health of the county.
   DIRECTOR. The director of the Department of Health or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   HOBBY KENNEL or CATTERY. Any kennel where cats are kept for organized shows,
breeding for exhibition or for the enjoyment of the household.
   INOCULATION, VACCINATION or VACCINATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of a cat
with a vaccine approved by the Department of Health for use in the prevention
of rabies.
   KEEP or HARBOR. Habitually permitting to remain or to be lodged or to be fed
within the house, store, yard, enclosure or other place.
   KENNEL. The house, store, yard, enclosure or place where two or more weaned,
unspayed or unneutered cats are harbored or kept; provided, however, this
definition shall not apply to spayed female cats nor to the animal shelter or
to animal hospitals operated by veterinarians duly licensed under the laws of
the state keeping cats for others for treatment or boarding.
   OWN. Unless otherwise indicated in the text, shall be deemed to mean and
include own, keep, harbor or have charge, custody or control of a cat.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a cat.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of
the owner or a member of his or her immediate family.
   WARDEN. The person in charge of enforcing this code and appointed by the
Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-1)
§ 90.076 VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES REQUIRED; VACCINATION TAG.
   Any person within the village owning a cat six months of age or older shall
have such cat vaccinated once each year against rabies. Each unvaccinated cat
acquired or moved into the municipality must be vaccinated within 30 days after
purchase or arrival provided that no cat under six months of age shall be
required to be vaccinated until it reaches the age of six months. It shall be
the duty of every veterinarian, at the time of vaccinating any cat, to provide
a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate to the warden and to provide a
rabies vaccination tag to the owner. The rabies vaccination tag shall be
attached to and kept upon the collar or harness of the cat.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-2)
§ 90.077 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to own a cat over six
months of age without procuring a license for such cat as provided in this
code.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.078 LICENSE TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cat to permit or allow such cat to
wear any license tag issued for another cat or for another year.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.079 INFORMATION REQUIRED; RECEIPT; TAG.
   (A)   Application for such license shall be made to the Director, and the
following information, including presentation of a valid rabies certificate
showing that the cat has been immunized for rabies shall be furnished:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner or harborer of such cat;
      (2)   Such description of the cat as may be required for the purpose of
identification; and
      (3)   The license number of the tag issued.
   (B)   The warden shall furnish to the owner, upon payment of the license
fees as hereinafter required, a license receipt showing thereon such
information and metallic tag bearing the tag number, the license year for which
issued and the words “cat tag” engraved thereon.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-5)
§ 90.080 CATS RUNNING AT LARGE WHILE IN HEAT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any owner, keeper or harborer of any
female cat to permit such cat to run at large while in heat, whether or not a
valid registration tag is attached.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-6) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.081 WEARING OF COLLARS; REMOVAL OF LICENSE TAG.
   Each licensed cat must wear a collar bearing the license tag and rabies
vaccination tag. This is the owner’s responsibility. It shall be unlawful for
any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the collar, harness or metallic
license tag or rabies vaccination tag from any licensed cat.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-7) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.082 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any cat running at large in violation of the provisions of this code
is declared to be a public nuisance, and shall be impounded by the Director as
in this subchapter provided, or if the residence of the owner of such cat is
determined by the capturing animal control officer before such cat is delivered
to the animal shelter, such cat may be delivered to the owner upon said owner’s
written acceptance of delivery upon a form to be provided by the Director. If
such cat is so delivered to the owner, an impoundment fee of $10 shall be paid
by the owner to Director within five days of delivery, and failure to pay said
fee shall constitute a separate violation of this section.
   (B)   The warden shall not release any such cat from being impounded until
the owner of the cat shall have obtained a license as provided in this code.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-8) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.083 CATS INJURING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, or allow to be in or upon any
premises occupied by him or her or under his or her charge or control, any cat
that in any manner injures or destroys any real or personal property of any
description belonging to another. If upon the trial of any offense mentioned in
this section it shall appear to municipal judge that the person be guilty as
charged in said complaint, said judge may, in addition to the usual judgment of
conviction, order the person so offending to make restitution to the party
injured in an amount equal to the value of the property so injured or
destroyed.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-9) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.084 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for all cats shall be the sum of $7.50; provided, however,
the license fee for all spayed female cats and neutered male cats shall be the
sum of $2.50. Further provided, the license fee for a cat owned by an
individual 65 years of age or older shall be the sum of $5, however, the
license fee charged to such owner shall be $1.50 if the cat is a spayed female
or a neutered male. In addition to such fee, any expired license which is
renewed later than January 1 following the expiration date shall not be renewed
until the late fee of $2 is paid by the owner.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-10)
§ 90.085 HOBBY KENNEL OR CATTERY PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or maintain a hobby kennel
or cattery within the municipality without first having obtained a hobby kennel
or cattery permit from the warden as herein provided.
   (B)   Any person having a hobby kennel or cattery shall make application to
the warden for the permit. Upon a finding by the warden that the premises are
in compliance with the law and upon payment of the permit fee, said permit will
be issued.
      (1)   Permits are not transferable from one person to another person or
place.
      (2)   A permit holder shall notify the warden of any change in his or her
operations which may affect the status of his or her permit and shall keep the
warden apprised of any change in name or location of his or her kennel.
      (3)   The hobby kennel or cattery permit shall expire December 31 of the
calendar year for which it is issued. All permits shall be due January 1 of
each year and shall expire on December 31 following year.
      (4)   The permit fee shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each kennel with two to ten cats: $35;
         (b)   For each kennel with 11 to 18 cats: $50; and
         (c)   For each kennel with 19 cats or more: $5 per cat.
      (5)   The above permit fee shall be in lieu of the license fee for
individual cats as provided for hereinbefore in this code.
   (C)   Any decision of the warden under the provisions of this section may be
appealed to the corporate authorities, which shall hear and render a decision
in this matter.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-11) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.086 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF SANITATION.
   (A)   Animal housing facilities. Animal housing facilities shall be
constructed of nontoxic materials and in a structurally sound design. The
facility shall be kept in good repair and kept clean and sanitary at all times,
so as to protect animals from disease and injury.
   (B)   Animals maintained in pens, cages or runs. Animals maintained in pens,
cages or runs for periods exceeding 24 hours shall be provided with adequate
space to prevent overcrowding and to maintain normal exercise according to
species. Cages are to be of material and construction that permit cleaning and
sanitizing.
   (C)   Indoor housing. These facilities shall be sufficiently temperature
controlled and ventilated to provide for the animals comfort and health.
   (D)   Outside housing or enclosures. Outside housing or enclosures shall
allow adequate protection against weather extremes. Floors of buildings, runs
and wall shall be of an impervious material to permit proper cleaning and
disinfection. Outside runs must be within a yard with an additional or separate
fence around it, and screened from view by either plantings or the additional
fence.
   (E)   Removal and proper disposal. Provisions shall be made for the removal
and proper disposal of animal and food waste, bedding, dead animals and debris.
Disposal facilities shall be provided and so operated as to minimize vermin
infestation, odors and disease hazards.
   (F)   Animal quarters and runs. All animal quarters and runs are to be kept
clean, dry and in a sanitary condition.
   (G)   Food. The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome, palatable
and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily
requirements for the condition and size of the animal.
   (H)   Fresh water. All animals shall have fresh water available at all
times. Water vessels shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured in a
manner that prevents tipping and be of the removable type.
   (I)   Cat caretaker. Each cat shall be observed daily by the cat caretaker
in charge or his or her representative. Sick, diseased, injured, lame or blind
animals shall be provided with proper veterinary care.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-12) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.087 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   The warden shall deposit all monies received by him or her under this code
with the Municipal Treasurer, who shall credit the deposits to the Animal
Control Fund.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-13)
§ 90.088 TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire on December 31
of the calendar year for which issued.
   (B)   All licenses hereunder shall be due January 1 of each year and shall
expire in December 31 following.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-14)
§ 90.089 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of the provisions of this code shall be under the direction
of the animal control warden. For the purpose of enforcing this subchapter, the
warden or any animal control warden or police officer may obtain a search
warrant or other appropriate court order to permit entering private premises.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-15)
§ 90.090 POISONING OR INJURING CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to administer, or cause to be
administered, poison of any sort whatsoever to any cat, or to neglect, or in
any manner to mistreat, injure, maim or destroy except as elsewhere in the
ordinance specifically authorized, or in any manner to attempt to mistreat,
injure, maim or destroy a cat of another, or to place any poison, poisoned food
or poisoned bait where the same is accessible to any cat. This section shall
not be interpreted to prohibit an act of a licensed veterinarian in causing a
cat’s death in a humane manner with the approval of the owner of the cat.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-16) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.091 DUTY TO PLACE CAT UNDER OBSERVATION; WHEN REQUIRED; PROCEDURE.
   When any person owning a cat has been notified by any person injured or by
someone in his or her behalf, or by someone with knowledge of said injury, that
the person has been bitten or attacked by said cat, or when any person owning a
cat has been notified by any person that said cat has been bitten by a rabid
animal, the owner shall immediately place the cat under the care and
observation of the Director or of a licensed veterinarian within the
municipality with the expense thereof to be borne by the owner of such cat; and
failure of the owner to submit said cat or other animal within 24 hours after
notice of said bite or attack to the Director or a veterinarian within the
village constitutes a violation of this subchapter. The warden or licensed
veterinarian shall impound said cat for care and observation for a period of
ten days in compliance with standards adopted by the corporate authorities. It
shall be lawful for the warden or an agent of the warden, to destroy in a
humane manner any cat that has been determined by the Director to have rabies,
or that has been impounded for observation after the period of observation has
expired unless the owner shall, within five days after notice has been given,
redeem such cat by paying such expense incident to such impounding, observation
or treatment. It shall be illegal for any person to release any cat held for
observation to any person prior to expiration of the period of observation.
Before any such cat shall be released the person to whom it is released shall
submit proof in the form of a certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or
other person authorized by law to administer rabies inoculation that such cat
does not have rabies and has been properly inoculated for rabies. Such
impounded cat may be released temporarily directly by a licensed veterinarian.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-17) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.092 HOLDING IMPOUNDED CATS.
   (A)   Any cat impounded because of not being properly licensed shall be held
by the warden for not less than 48 hours, unless sooner redeemed or released as
hereinafter provided. The warden shall notify the owner of any cat impounded if
such owner’s identity and address can be ascertained upon reasonable
investigation. Such notice shall be given within 24 hours after such cat is
impounded under any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The notice shall inform the owner that the cat has been impounded, the
purpose or reason for such impounding, and the requirements to permit release
of the cat.
      (1)   Any cat remaining in the shelter unclaimed or not redeemed at the
expiration of the time limit of 72 hours may be destroyed in a humane manner
unless in the judgment of the warden a suitable home may be found for such cat.
      (2)   In the event the warden shall find a suitable home for such cat
within the municipality, the person taking such cat shall first procure from
said warden a license and metallic tag for that particular cat as provided for
hereinbefore in this code. The warden is not required to charge for the sale of
the cat, except for a charge for license fee and, if such cat is six months of
age or older and has not had a vaccination for rabies as required by this
subchapter, the person receiving the cat must have the cat vaccinated for
rabies at that person’s expense.
      (3)   The humane society or like institution with whom the warden has
contracted to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, may sell and transfer
to a new owner any cat impounded in the animal shelter after the expiration of
the time limit as set by this section, if such new owner procures a license and
metallic tag for that particular cat under the provisions of this chapter. The
proceeds of sale of any such cat shall be applied to any impoundment fees owing
on the cat by the village, and any excess proceeds may be retained by the
humane society. This division (B)(3) shall not be interpreted to prohibit the
humane society from giving away any cat.
      (4)   Any impounded cat placed with a new owner shall be neutered or
spayed within 15 days after release from impoundment, except for cats under six
months of age. Payment for neutering must be made at the time of release and
will be forwarded to a licensed veterinarian who will present a statement
signed by the veterinarian and the owner stating that the surgery has been
performed.
      (5)   The owner of any cat which is impounded and destroyed under this
code shall be held responsible for payment of the impoundment fee set out in
this code, plus the expense incident to the impoundment for observation
required by this subchapter, and shall pay such fee or expense to the warden
within 15 days after destruction of such cat.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-18)
§ 90.093 SHELTER FEE; RELEASE FROM SHELTER.
   (A)   Any cat held or impounded in the animal shelter because of the
violation of any of the provisions of this code by its owner, shall be released
to the owner thereof by the warden upon proof of ownership of such cat and upon
presentation of the license and valid rabies certificate for the current year
showing that such cat has been properly licensed and inoculated for rabies, and
further upon the payment of a shelter fee of $20.
   (B)   All cats which shall have remained in the shelter 48 hours without
being claimed or released may be destroyed in a humane manner, except as
hereinbefore provided.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-19)
§ 90.094 WARDEN’S DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the warden or his or her assistants to do the
following acts:
      (1)   Establish and maintain, or supervise under contract, an animal
shelter at some convenient location, which shall be kept sanitary, properly
heated, ventilated and lighted;
      (2)   Properly house, feed, water and care for all cats confined in the
animal shelter;
      (3)   Enforce the licensing of all cats in the municipality as
hereinbefore provided;
      (4)   Issue citations in the municipal court against any person failing
to license any cat as hereinbefore provided; and
      (5)   Capture and secure all cats running at large contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter and remove such cats in a humane manner to the
animal shelter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever there is any violation of any provision of this
subchapter, the warden or any of his or her assistants finding such violation
shall, except as otherwise provided, take the name and address of such person
violating such provision and the description of the cat owned by him or her and
issue a summons or citation or otherwise notify him or her in writing to appear
in court at a time and place to be specified in such summons or notice. Such
hearing shall be at least five days after the notice, unless such person shall
demand an earlier hearing.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disregard a summons issued
as provided herein or to fail to appear in court as provided by such summons or
citation. A warning ticket may be issued in lieu of such summons or citation.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-20) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.095 WARDEN’S RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The warden shall keep accurate account of all cats received by him or
her at the shelter and released by him or her to the owner or purchaser,
showing the date and from whom received, the description of the cat, the name
and address of the person or persons releasing or purchasing. He or she shall
keep a like accurate account and description of all cats destroyed by him or
her.
   (B)   On the last day of each month, the shelter manager shall forward to
the Director an accurate and complete account of all monies received by him or
her during the month under the provisions of this subchapter, together with a
statement of the number of cats in the shelter at the first of the month, the
number received, the number destroyed, the number released or sold and the
number on hand at the end of the month.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-21)
§ 90.096 IMPOUNDING TIME LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for the warden to destroy or cause or permit to be
destroyed any cat impounded until the expiration of impounding time limit of 48
hours, except that the warden may, when in his or her judgment a cat so
impounded is suffering from any injury or disease and recovery is doubtful,
destroy such cat in a humane manner.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-22) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.097 RECEIVING CATS AT SHELTER; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The warden shall not receive a cat into the shelter from any person
unless such person shall give his or her full name and place of residence which
shall be registered in a proper book kept by the shelter manager.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person delivering to or receiving any cat
from said shelter, to give any false information concerning the same.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-23) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.098 INTERFERENCE WITH CAPTURE OF CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, interfere with or
obstruct the warden while engaged in capturing, securing or taking to the
animal shelter any cat or cats subject to be impounded, or to break open or in
any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of
any animal shelter, or any ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of cats to the shelter.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-24) Penalty, see §
90.999
BEEKEEPING
§ 90.110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEE DISEASES. Any infectious or contagious diseases of bees as specified by
the Illinois Department of Agriculture, including but not limited to American
foulbrood.
   BEE EQUIPMENT. Hives, supers, frames or any other devices customarily used
in beekeeping.
   BEEKEEPING. The raising or producing of bees, beeswax, honey and byproducts
and the transporting of bees, colonies or items of bee equipment.
   BEE PARASITES. Any parasite of bees specified by the State Department of
Agriculture.
   COLONY. The entire honey bee family or social unit living together.
   HIVE. A frame hive, box hive, box, barrel, log gum, skep or any other
receptacle or container, natural or artificial, or any part thereof, which is
used or employed as a domicile for honey bees.
   HONEY BEES. Bees of any stage of the type customarily raised for honey
domestically; such bees are known as apis mellifera species.
   NUISANCE. Bees, colonies or items of bee equipment where bee diseases, bee
parasites or exotic strains of bees exist; or hives that cannot be readily
inspected; or colonies that are not registered.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 90.111 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who wishes to engage in the practice of beekeeping on
village property must apply for and obtain a beekeeping license from the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   Any license granted in accordance with this subchapter shall only
apply to the license holder and shall not run with the land.
   (C)   An applicant must provide a basic beekeepers certification from an
accredited beekeeping organization and pay an annual fee to the Village Clerk
in the amount of $5.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 90.112 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   The maximum number of licenses that may be issued by the village at any time
is four.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 90.113 DUTY NOT TO CREATE NUISANCE.
   Any person engaged in the practice of beekeeping has a duty to maintain each
colony so as not to create a nuisance.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 90.114 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   Any person engaged in the practice of beekeeping must comply with the
requirements of the Illinois Bees and Apiaries Act, 510 ILCS 20/1 et seq., or
any successor thereto, as in effect from time to time.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 90.115 MAINTENANCE OF COLONIES.
   A colony established in accordance with this subchapter must be maintained
in the following condition.
   (A)   All honey bee hives shall be registered with the State Department of
Agriculture as required by 510 ILCS 20/2.
   (B)   Colonies shall be maintained in movable-frame or similar hives.
   (C)   Adequate techniques in handling bees, such as re-queening and
providing adequate space in the hive, shall be maintained to prevent unprovoked
stinging ten feet or more from the hive.
   (D)   No individual shall maintain more than two hives on a lot of 10,000
square feet or less at any time. Lots of 10,000 square feet or more shall not
possess more than three hives at any time.
   (E)   Hives shall not be located within five feet of any property line,
public street, sidewalk or alley.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 90.116 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In the event that the village, its agents or representatives, or the State
Department of Agriculture determines that a colony located on village property
is a nuisance, fails to comply with the Illinois Bees and Apiaries Act, being
510 ILCS 20, of otherwise fails to conform with the requirements of §
90.114 above, the Mayor of the village may revoke the property owner’s
beekeeping license without notice.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the requirements of §§
90.110 through
90.116 is punishable by ordinance violation with a fine up to $500 per day that
the violation persists.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 7-10-2018)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Specific nuisances enumerated
   
91.002   Nuisances detrimental to health generally
   
91.003   Notice to abate
   
91.004   Abatement of nuisance by village; unknown owner
   
91.005   Failure to comply with notice
Weeds
   
91.020   Definition
   
91.021   Height
   
91.022   Notice to abate
   
91.023   Service of notice
   
91.024   Abatement
   
91.025   Lien
   
91.026   Payment
   
91.027   Foreclosure of lien
   
91.028   Standard fee for mowing
Garbage and Debris
   
91.040   Accumulation prohibited
   
91.041   Notice to abate
   
91.042   Service of notice
   
91.043   Abatement
   
91.044   Lien
   
91.045   Payment
   
91.046   Foreclosure of lien
Building as a Nuisance
   
91.060   Building condition; nuisance
   
91.061   Time limit
   
91.062   Notification
   
91.063   Dangerous and unsafe building defined
   
91.064   Standards for repair, vacation or demolition
   
91.065   Dangerous and unsafe buildings; nuisances
   
91.066   Duties of the attorney
   
91.067   Liens
Inoperable or Derelict Water Craft
   
91.080   Definition
   
91.081   Declaration of nuisance
   
91.082   Notice to owner
   
91.083   Exclusions
Spite Fences
   
91.095   Spite fence deemed a nuisance
Abandoned Mobile Homes
   
91.110   Legislative intent and policy
   
91.111   Definitions
   
91.112   Authorization
   
91.113   Exemption from liability
   
91.114   Notice
   
91.115   Notice by publication
   
91.116   Unknown owner
   
91.117   [Intentionally omitted]
   
91.118   Disposal
   
91.119   Auction
   
91.120   Recovery of financial loss
   
91.121   Transportation
   
91.122   Transfer of title
   
91.123   Proceeds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health, peace
and comfort of the village, for any person, firm or corporation within the
limits of the village to permit the following; but the enumeration of the
following nuisances shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Filth. To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal,
filth or noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any
place, to the prejudice of others;
   (B)   Deposit of offensive materials. To throw or deposit any offal or other
offensive matter, or the carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake,
pond, spring, well or common sewer, street or public highway;
   (C)   Corruption of water. To corrupt or render unwholesome, or impure, the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of
others;
   (D)   Highway encroachment. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places and ways to burying
places;
   (E)   Manufacturing gunpowder. To carry on the business of manufacturing
gunpowder, nitroglycerine or other highly explosive substances, or mixing or
grinding the materials therefore, in any building within 20 rods of any
valuable building erected at the time such business may be commenced;
   (F)   Powder magazines. To establish powder magazines near incorporated
towns, at a point different from that appointed according to law by the
corporate authorities of the town, or within 50 rods of any occupied dwelling
house;
   (G)   Noxious odors. To erect, continue or use any building or other place
for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning
noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous
to the health of individuals, or of the public;
   (H)   Unlawful advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on, or affixing them to fences or other private property,
or on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner, or if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities;
   (I)   Bodies of water. To create any condition, through the improper
maintenance of a swimming pool or wading pool, or by pausing any action which
alters the condition of a natural body of water, so that it harbors mosquitoes,
flies or other animal pests that are offensive, injurious or dangerous to the
health of individuals or the public;
   (J)   Storing debris. To store, dump or permit the accumulation of debris,
refuse, garbage, trash, tires, buckets, cans, wheelbarrows, garbage cans or
other containers in a manner that may harbor mosquitoes, flies, insects,
rodents, nuisance birds or other animal pests that are offensive, injurious and
dangerous to the health of individuals or the public;
   (K)   Harassment. To harass, intimidate or threaten any person who is about
to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property, or
is about to buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real
property, when the harassment, intimidation or threat relates to a person’s
attempt to sell, buy or lease a residence, or other real property, or refers to
a person’s sale, purchase or lease of a residence or other real property;
   (L)   Business. To establish, maintain and carry on any offensive or
unwholesome business or establishment within the limits of the village or
within the distance of one mile beyond the village limits;
(65 ILCS 5/11-42-9)
   (M)   Filthy premises conditions. To keep or suffer to be kept in a foul,
offensive, nauseous or filthy condition, any chicken coop, cow barn, stable,
cellar, vault, drain, privy, sewer or sink upon any premises belonging to or
occupied by him or her, or any railroad car, building, yard, grounds and
premises belonging to or occupied by him or her;
   (N)   Expectorate. To expectorate on any public sidewalk or street, or other
public building or floor or walk of any public vehicle or hall;
   (O)   Litter on streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or
allow trash, paper, cardboard, wire, dirt, rock, stone, glass, brick, lumber,
wood or litter of material objects of any size or description to fall upon the
streets of the village from any moving vehicle, or to be thrown from a moving
vehicle, or to throw from a moving vehicle and to remain thereon;
   (P)   Accumulation of junk and trash. To deposit or pile up any rags, old
rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, ashes, garbage, refuse,
hazardous waste, plastic, brush, litter, weeds, slush, lead, glass bottles or
broken glass upon any lot, piece or parcel of land or upon any public or
private alley, street or public way within the village;
   (Q)   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist that
shall attract, harbor or encourage the infestation of rodents;
   (R)   Bringing nuisances into the village. To bring into the village, or
keep therein for sale or otherwise, either for food or for any other purpose,
any dead or live animal or any matter, substance or thing which shall be a
nuisance or which shall occasion a nuisance in the village, or which may or
shall be dangerous or detrimental to health;
   (S)   Offensive liquids. To keep nauseous, foul or putrid liquid or
substance or any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive
or putrid, nor permit any such liquid to be discharged, placed, thrown or to
flow from or out of any premises into or upon any adjacent premises or any
public street or alley, nor permit the same to be done by any person connected
with the premises;
   (T)   Motor transport engines. To operate motor transport engines in the
nighttime between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., in any place in which a
majority of the buildings, within a radius of 400 feet are used exclusively for
residence purposes, excluding state and federal highways; and
   (U)   Generally. To commit any offense which is a nuisance according to the
common law of the land or made such by statute of the state.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.002 NUISANCES DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH GENERALLY.
   No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises or part
thereof shall be made, used, kept, maintained or operated in the village if
such use, keeping, maintaining of any nuisance shall be dangerous or
detrimental to health.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.003 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Chief, the Mayor or their designated
representatives finds that a nuisance exists, they may direct the Village Clerk
or Attorney to mail (certified) and/or by regular mail to, or have served by
personal service on, the party responsible for the nuisance and/or the party on
whose property the nuisance exists, a written notice ordering that the nuisance
be abated within a reasonable time generally no less than seven days, unless
emergency conditions exist. The determination of what constitutes an emergency
condition is discretionary on the part of the village.
   (B)   The notice to abate may contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A statement of what condition or state of affairs must be achieved
in order for the nuisance to be deemed abated;
      (4)   A statement suggesting how such abatement might be accomplished;
      (5)   The date by which abatement must be completed or time period within
which the abatement must be completed; and
      (6)   A statement indicating that if the nuisance is not abated by the
date or time period prescribed this municipality may abate the nuisance and
assess the costs against the property and/or impose a fine and/or request an
order from a court of competent jurisdiction ordering the nuisance to be abated
and/or ordering the violator to refrain from further violation of the code.
   (C)   The sending of a notice to abate is a discretionary act on the part of
the village. It is neither a prerequisite nor condition precedent to filing a
complaint in circuit court. The receipt of a notice to abate by the defendant
is not a prerequisite for the court to assume jurisdiction over the person or
subject matter.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-3) (Ord. 04/13/2004-1, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 91.004 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY VILLAGE; UNKNOWN OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or a designated officials to
proceed at once upon the expiration of the time specified in the notice to
cause such nuisance to be abated; provided, however, that whenever the owner,
occupant, agent or person in possession or control of any premises in or upon
which any nuisance may be found in unknown or cannot be found, the Chief of
Police shall proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. In either case, the
expense of such abatement shall be paid by the person who may have created or
suffered such nuisance to exist, in addition to any penalty or fine.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-4)
§ 91.005 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall neglect or refuse to comply
with the requirements of such notice by abating such nuisance within the time
specified, such person shall be guilty of a violation of this code. The village
shall not be required to issue another notice where the condition or violation
is at first abated, but later resumed and/or repeated.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2, 740 ILCS 55/221, 740 ILCS 55/222
WEEDS
§ 91.020 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, the following: burdock; rag weed
(giant); rag weed (common); thistle; cocklebur; jimson; blue vervain; common
milk weed; wild carrot; poison ivy; wild mustard; rough pigweed; lambsquarter;
wild lettuce; curled dock; smartweeds (all varieties); poison hemlock; wild
hemp; and Johnson grass and all other noxious weeds as defined by the statutes
of the state.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-1) (Ord. 11/10/09-4, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.021 HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village. Any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-2) (Ord. 11/10/09-4, passed 11-10-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.022 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Chief, the Mayor or their designated
representatives finds that a nuisance exists, they may direct the Village Clerk
or Attorney to mail (certified) and/or by regular mail to, or have served by
personal service on, the party responsible for the nuisance and/or the party on
whose property the nuisance exists, a written notice ordering that the nuisance
be abated within a reasonable time generally no less than seven days, unless
emergency conditions exist. The determination of what constitutes an emergency
condition is discretionary on the part of the village.
   (B)   The notice to abate may contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A statement of what condition or state of affairs must be achieved
in order for the nuisance to be deemed abated;
      (4)   A statement suggesting how such abatement might be accomplished;
      (5)   The date by which abatement must be completed or time period within
which the abatement must be completed; and
      (6)   A statement indicating that if the nuisance is not abated by the
date or time period prescribed this municipality may abate the nuisance and
assess the costs against the property and/or impose a fine and/or request an
order from a court of competent jurisdiction ordering the nuisance to be abated
and/or ordering the violator to refrain from further violation of the code.
   (C)   The sending of a notice to abate is a discretionary act on the part of
the village. It is neither a prerequisite nor condition precedent to filing a
complaint in circuit court. The receipt of a notice to abate by the defendant
is not a prerequisite for the court to assume jurisdiction over the person or
subject matter.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-3) (Ord. 11/12/03-1, passed 11-12-2003; Ord. 04/13/2004-1,
passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 11/10/09-4, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.023 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the
same to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his
or her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided,
that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained,
then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-4) (Ord. 11/10/09-4, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.024 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within seven days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement. The Village Board of Trustees does hereby establish a fee of
$40 per man hour and $40 per hour per piece of equipment for mowing real estate
not owned by the village.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-5) (Ord. 11/12/03-1, passed 11-12-2003; Ord. 11/10/09-4,
passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.025 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
   (B)   After the weeds and/or grass have been cut by the village, a notice of
intent to file statutory lien shall be personally served or sent certified mail
to the person to whom was sent the tax bill of the general taxes on the
property for the last preceding year. The notice of intent shall contain the
costs the village incurred in cutting weeds and/or grass. If the costs have not
been paid within seven days of the date of the notice of intent, a notice of
lien of the costs and expenses thereof incurred by the village shall be
recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-6) (Ord. 11/12/03-1, passed 11-12-2003; Ord. 11/10/09-4,
passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.026 PAYMENT.
   Upon payment of the cost an expense after notice of lien has been filed, the
lien shall be released by the village or person in whose name the lien has been
filed and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner as filing
notice of the lien. The release of lien may be sent to the owner along with
notice that he or she may file release of lien to clear title, at the owner’s
expense, said with the County Recorder of Deeds. All lien and release filing
fees shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-7) (Ord. 11/12/03-1, passed 11-12-2003; Ord. 11/10/09-4,
passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.027 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed and/or grass cutting charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges after deducting costs and attorney fees, as is the
case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the
name of the village after the lien is in effect for 60 days.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-8) (Ord. 11/12/03-1, passed 11-12-2003; Ord. 11/10/09-4,
passed 11-10-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-6, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7
§ 91.028 STANDARD FEE FOR MOWING.
   (A)   There shall be a standard fee charged in the amount of $40 per hour
per man and $40 per hour per piece of equipment for any mowing upon real estate
not owned by the village.
   (B)   Said fee is set pursuant to approval by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 91-109, passed 10-21-1991)
GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
§ 91.040 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or her
premises or private property. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it
shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect
to remove the garbage or debris.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.041 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Chief, the Mayor or their designated
representatives finds that a nuisance exists, they may direct the Village Clerk
or Attorney to mail (certified) and/or by regular mail to, or have served by
personal service on, the party responsible for the nuisance and/or the party on
whose property the nuisance exists, a written notice ordering that the nuisance
be abated within a reasonable time generally no less than seven days, unless
emergency conditions exist. The determination of what constitutes an emergency
condition is discretionary on the part of the village.
   (B)   The notice to abate may contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes a nuisance;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A statement of what condition or state of affairs must be achieved
in order for the nuisance to be deemed abated;
      (4)   A statement suggesting how such abatement might be accomplished;
      (5)   The date by which abatement must be completed or time period
within, which the abatement must be completed; and
      (6)   A statement indicating that if the nuisance is not abated by the
date or time period prescribed, this municipality may abate the nuisance and
assess the costs against the property and/or impose a fine and/or request an
order from a court of competent jurisdiction ordering the nuisance to be abated
and/or ordering the violator to refrain from further violation of the code.
   (C)   The sending of a notice to abate is a discretionary act on the part of
the village. It is neither a prerequisite nor condition precedent to filing a
complaint in circuit court. The receipt of a notice to abate by the defendant
is not a prerequisite for the court to assume jurisdiction over the person or
subject matter.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-2) (Ord. 04/13/2004-1, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 91.042 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of notice provided for herein may be effected by handing of the same
to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his or
her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided
that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained,
then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-3)
§ 91.043 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
Police Chief or the designated representative may proceed to abate such
nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement and such expense
shall be charged and paid by such owner or occupant.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-4)
§ 91.044 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A bill
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service shall be
presented to the owner.
   (B)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof incurred by the village shall
be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-5)
§ 91.045 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises
if his or her address is known.
   (B)   Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in whose name the
lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner
as filing notice of the lien.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-6)
§ 91.046 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens.
   (B)   Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village, after the lien
is in effect for 60 days.
   (C)   Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two years after
the date of filing notice of lien.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13
BUILDING AS A NUISANCE
§ 91.060 BUILDING CONDITION; NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or his or her designated representative shall
report to the Village Board when any building or structure in the village is in
a dangerous condition and constitutes a nuisance.
   (B)   Hereinafter, all references to Building Inspector shall include “his
or her designated representative”.
(1999 Code, § 25-5-1)
§ 91.061 TIME LIMIT.
   The owner of such building shall repair or alter it so as to make it safe
within 30 days from the time the notice is served upon him or her in the manner
provided by law.
(1999 Code, § 25-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.062 NOTIFICATION.
   The Building Inspector, with the approval of the Village Board, shall place
a notice on all “dangerous and unsafe buildings”, which notice shall read as
follows:
   “This building has been found to be a dangerous and unsafe building by the
village officials. This notice shall remain on this building until it is
repaired, vacated or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been
given the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of this building, or
person or persons in whose name or names such building was last assessed, and
all other persons having an interest in said building as shown by the land
records of the County Recorder of Deeds. It is unlawful to remove this notice
until such notice is complied with.”
(1999 Code, § 25-5-3)
§ 91.063 DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDING DEFINED.
   All buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
shall be deemed “dangerous and unsafe buildings”:
   (A)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 31% or more of damage
or deterioration of the supporting member or members; or 50% of damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
   (C)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs
or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the village;
   (E)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to cause injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those living therein;
   (F)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means
of communications;
   (H)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure members of the public or property;
   (I)   Those which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of
this village;
   (J)   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of the building
code or the fire prevention code or any other ordinances of the village;
   (K)   Those vacant buildings with unguarded openings shall be deemed to
constitute a fire hazard and to be unsafe within the provisions of this code;
and
   (L)   Those buildings which are uncompleted or abandoned.
(1999 Code, § 25-5-4)
§ 91.064 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Building
Inspector in ordering repair, vacation or demolition.
   (A)   If the “dangerous and unsafe building” is in such condition as to make
it dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants,
it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (B)   If the “dangerous and unsafe building” can reasonably be repaired so
that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it
shall be ordered repaired.
   (C)   In any case where a “dangerous and unsafe building” if 50% damaged or
decayed, or deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be
demolished, and in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it
will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be
demolished. In all cases where a “dangerous and unsafe building” is a fire
hazard existing or erected in violation of the terms of this subchapter, or any
ordinance of the village, or state statute, it shall be demolished. (See §§
155.300 through 155.305 of this code of ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 25-5-5)
§ 91.065 DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS; NUISANCES.
   All dangerous and unsafe buildings within the terms of this subchapter are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired, vacated or
demolished as hereinbefore or hereinafter provided.
(1999 Code, § 25-5-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.066 DUTIES OF THE ATTORNEY.
   The Village Attorney shall apply to the circuit court for an order
authorizing the demolition, repair or vacation of dangerous and unsafe
buildings or uncompleted or abandoned buildings when notices have not been
complied with and when requested to do so by the Building Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 25-5-7)
§ 91.067 LIENS.
   (A)   The cost of repair, demolition, vacation or enclosure shall be
recoverable from the owner or owners of such real estate and shall be a lien
thereon, which lien shall be subordinate to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances; provided that within 60 days after said cost and expense is
incurred, the village or person performing the service by authority of the
village, in his, her or its own names, shall file notices of lien in the office
of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (B)   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
therefor;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
   (C)   (1)   Upon payment of said cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in said property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village or person in whose name(s) the lien has been filed
and said release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of
lien.
      (2)   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case
of mortgages or mechanics of lien.
      (3)   Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within three years
after the date of filing notice of lien.
(1999 Code, § 25-5-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1
INOPERABLE OR DERELICT WATER CRAFT
§ 91.080 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE OR DERELICT WATER CRAFT. Any water craft which, for a period of
at least seven days, the engine, propeller or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being operated under its
own motor power or is otherwise unseaworthy or incapable of being operated in
or on the waters of this state. INOPERABLE OR DERELICT WATER CRAFT are further
defined as those water craft that are unregistered, unpermitted or unlicensed.
(1999 Code, § 25-6-1) (Ord. 03/12/2002-2, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.081 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All inoperable or derelict water craft, whether on public or private
property in view of the general public, are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 25-6-2) (Ord. 03/12/2002-2, passed 3-12-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.082 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall notify the owner of the water craft, informing
him or her that he or she shall dispose of any water craft under his or her
control.
   (B)   If the owner fails to dispose of said inoperable vehicle(s) within
seven days from the issuance of the notice, the Police Chief may authorize a
towing service to remove and take possession of the water craft or parts
thereof.
(1999 Code, § 25-6-3) (Ord. 03/12/2002-2, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.083 EXCLUSIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any water craft that is kept
within a building when not in use, or to a water craft on the premises of a
licensed business engaged in the wrecking or junking of water craft.
(1999 Code, § 25-6-4)
SPITE FENCES
§ 91.095 SPITE FENCE DEEMED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful and deemed a nuisance under the provisions of this
chapter, to erect a fence, maintain a fence, or embellish an existing fence for
the purpose of annoying the owners or occupants of adjoining property.
(1999 Code, § 25-7-1) (Ord. 02/10/2004-2, passed 2-10-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
ABANDONED MOBILE HOMES
§ 91.110 LEGISLATIVE INTENT AND POLICY.
   The Village Board of Trustees finds that abandoned mobile homes are a
nuisance because they blight and depress property values.
(210 ILCS 117/5) (1999 Code, § 25-7-1) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.111 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOBILE HOME. A mobile home that has no owner currently residing in
the mobile home or authorized tenant of the owner currently residing in the
mobile home to the best knowledge of the municipality; has had its electricity,
natural gas, sewer and water payments declared delinquent by the utility
companies that are providing such services; and for which the mobile home
privilege tax imposed under the Mobile Home Local Services Tax Act, is
delinquent for at least three months.
(210 ILCS 117/5.)
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and constructed
to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its
frame, from its place of construction to a location where it is intended to be
a permanent habitation. MOBILE HOME does not include a structure that is served
by individual utilities and that rest on a permanent foundation with its
wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed.
(210 ILCS 117/5)
(1999 Code, § 25-7-2) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.112 AUTHORIZATION.
   The municipality may remove and dispose of any abandoned mobile home found
within the municipality and may legally enter upon any land to do so.
(210 ILCS 117/15) (1999 Code, § 25-7-3) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.113 EXEMPTION FROM LIABILITY.
   Any entity that removes, sells or disposes of a mobile home under the
authority of this subchapter shall not be liable for any damages caused by the
removal, sale or disposal.
(210 ILCS 117/20) (1999 Code, § 25-7-4) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.114 NOTICE.
   Before removing an abandoned mobile home, written notice as provided in this
subchapter shall be sent to each owner and each lien holder who appears on the
records of the Secretary of State, and to each owner of record of the land upon
which the mobile home is located. The notice shall be sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Notice shall also be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last person who paid the mobile home privilege tax on
the mobile home as shown on the records of the County Treasurer of the county
where the mobile home is located.
(210 ILCS 117/25) (1999 Code, § 25-7-5) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.115 NOTICE BY PUBLICATION.
   If the owner, lien holder or other legally entitled person does not sign for
the notice sent to him or her by certified mail, that person shall be notified
by publication in the manner provided below, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality or a newspaper of general circulation in the
county if no newspaper exists in the municipality. The notice must be published
once a week for three consecutive weeks.
(210 ILCS 117/25) (1999 Code, § 25-7-6) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.116 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   If these Secretary of State has no record of title for the mobile home, and
if after diligent search, the name and address of the owner, lien holder or
other legally entitled person cannot be ascertained, then notice shall be
published as provided in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
once a week for three consecutive weeks.
(210 ILCS 117/25) (1999 Code, § 25-7-7) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.117 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 91.118 DISPOSAL.
   (A)   If the owner or lien holders of a mobile home fail to restore the
electric and water service and to pay all taxes, interest and penalties within
the 30-day period following the effective date of the notice, then the
municipality shall obtain title to the mobile home and may remove the mobile
home and dispose of it.
(210 ILCS 117/30)
   (B)   If notice was mailed, the effective date of the notice shall be the
date it was mailed. If notice was published, the effective date shall be the
first date the notice appeared in the newspaper.
(210 ILCS 117/25)
(1999 Code, § 25-7-9) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.119 AUCTION.
   The municipality, in its discretion may sell the mobile home at public
auction. Notice of the time and place of the auction shall be posted where the
auction shall take place in a conspicuous place at least ten days before the
auction. At least ten days before the auction, the municipality shall also send
notice of the auction by certified mail to each owner and lien holder who was
originally notified by certified mail. This notice shall include a description
of the mobile home and shall inform the owner or lien holder, or both, that
they can reclaim the mobile home if they establish before the auction that they
have a right to possession, submit written proof that electric and water
service has been restored to the mobile home, submit written proof that all
taxes, including interest and penalties, have been paid, and that the
municipality has been reimbursed for all incidental expenses, including the
costs of providing notice.
(210 ILCS 117/30) (1999 Code, § 25-7-9) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.120 RECOVERY OF FINANCIAL LOSS.
   If the municipality disposes or auctions a mobile home at a financial loss,
the municipality may recover all reasonable losses from the person having
record title at the time these proceedings began.
(210 ILCS 117/35) (1999 Code, § 25-7-10) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.121 TRANSPORTATION.
   Transportation of abandoned mobile home over the public streets and highways
of the state under this subchapter shall not require registration plates issued
under the Illinois Vehicle Code or a permit certifying payment of the mobile
home tax under the Mobile Home Local Services Tax Act for the current year.
(210 ILCS 117/40) (1999 Code, § 25-7-11) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.122 TRANSFER OF TITLE.
   The municipality, in its discretion, may transfer title and all
responsibilities for an abandoned mobile home to its agent for the sole purpose
of removal by sale or disposal. If this option is utilized, any expenses
incurred or profits realized from the legal sale or disposal shall be with the
agent.
(210 ILCS 117/45) (1999 Code, § 25-7-12) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 91.123 PROCEEDS.
   When a mobile home is disposed of under this subchapter, whether by public
auction or other disposition, the municipality may deduct all towing, storage
and processing charges. The remainder shall be paid in priority order to lien
holders including providers of utility services. After payment of lien holders
and utility providers, any remaining amount maybe deposited into the municipal
treasury.
(210 ILCS 117/50) (1999 Code, § 25-7-13) (Ord. 11/10/2009-5, passed 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS
Section
Garbage and Refuse
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Ash cans
   
92.03   Deposit in street
   
92.04   Burning
   
92.05   Receptacles; duty to provide
   
92.06   Preparation of garbage
Fireworks Displays
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Permit
   
92.22   Requirements for permit
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The waster product of combustion of any material.
   GARBAGE. Includes KITCHEN AND HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE and OTHER REFUSE MATTER as
defined within this section.
   KITCHEN AND HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE. Any, all and every accumulation of vegetable
matter, liquid or solid, that is received from kitchens and households, and
also any, all and every decayed or unsound matter, such as vegetable and fruit.
   OTHER REFUSE. Sweepings, lawn takings, papers, tin cans, bottles, dirt or
other accumulations not giving off noxious odors.
   VEHICLE. Automobile, truck or any vessel, vehicle or wagon used to transport
garbage or refuse as defined within this section.
(1999 Code, § 16-1-1)
§ 92.02 ASH CANS.
   A receptacle for ashes shall be either of metal, wood or cement, and such
receptacle shall have a capacity of not less than ten gallons nor more than 32
gallons. No hot ashes shall be paced in a wooden receptacle.
(1999 Code, § 16-1-2)
§ 92.03 DEPOSIT IN STREET.
   No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be deposited in any street, alley or
public way, excepting as provided in this subchapter, and no such refuse shall
be so placed that it can be blown about or scattered by the wind.
(1999 Code, § 16-1-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 BURNING.
   The burning of kitchen or household garbage or other materials giving off an
offensive or obnoxious odor is hereby forbidden in the village.
(1999 Code, § 16-1-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 RECEPTACLES; DUTY TO PROVIDE.
   It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee or occupant of every dwelling,
tenement house, lodging house, hotel, boarding house or other person, persons,
firm or corporation, on whose premises kitchen and household garbage collects
to provide, and at all times to keep within such buildings or on the premises,
garbage containers sufficient to hold all kitchen and household garbage which
may accumulate on the premises between collections, such containers to be of
metal or rigid sturdy plastic, water-tight and with a tight-fitting cover, and
shall have a capacity of not less than five gallons nor more than 33 gallons,
and shall be equipped with suitable handles, which containers shall be placed
at all times so as to be readily accessible for removal and emptying, and where
they shall not be a public nuisance. No person, firm or corporation, unless
authorized and licensed for that purpose, as hereinafter specified, shall
interfere with such containers or the contents thereof. All other refuse and
ashes or cinders maybe placed in a separate fireproof receptacle, readily
accessible for emptying or removal, and of such size as to be easily handled by
one person, and where such receptacles shall not be a public nuisance. All such
garbage, ashes or cinders, and other refuse, shall be removed as provided by
regulations to be set by the Board of Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 16-1-5)
§ 92.06 PREPARATION OF GARBAGE.
   Brush or other bulky trash shall be cut into pieces of such size that they
can be placed in containers. Surplus liquids of all garbage must be drained off
so as to avoid spillage.
(1999 Code, § 16-1-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIREWORKS DISPLAYS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Those fireworks used for professional outdoor displays and
classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334 or UN0335 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. § 172.101.
   CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the Moweaqua Fire Protection District, which
provides fire protection to all areas within the Village of Moweaqua, Illinois.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Products
Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
classified as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States Department of
Transportation under 49 C.F.R. § 172.101. CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall not include
snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as “party
poppers”, “boobytraps”, “snappers”, “trickmatches”, “cigarette loads” and “auto
burglar alarms”; sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns and other devices
in which paper or plastic caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive
compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come
in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper
or plastic caps that contain less than 0.20 grains of explosive mixture; the
sale and use of which hall be permitted at all times.
   FIREWORKS USE ACT. The Illinois Fireworks Use Act (425 ILCS 35/0.01 et
seq.).
   FLAME EFFECT. The detonation, ignition or deflagration of flammable gases,
liquids or special materials to produce a thermal, physical, visual or audible
effect before the public, invitees or licensees, regardless of whether
admission is charged, in accordance with National Fire Protection Association
160 guidelines, and as may be further defined in the Pyrotechnic Operator
Licensing Act.
   LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR. An individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup and discharge of the pyrotechnic display and who is licensed pursuant to
the Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act.
   OFFICE. The Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, company,
consortium, joint venture or commercial entity.
   PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY. The detonation, ignition or deflagration of display
fireworks or flame effects to produce visual or audible effects of an
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged, and as may be further defined in the Pyrotechnic
Operator Licensing Act.
   PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR LICENSING ACT. The Illinois Pyrotechnic Distributor and
Operator Licensing Act (225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.).
(1999 Code, § 16-2-1) (Ord. 06/13/2006-2, passed 6-13-2006; Ord. 04/10/07-2,
passed 4-10-2007)
§ 92.21 PERMIT.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks displays are prohibited within the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a pyrotechnic display
within the village without having first secured a permit therefore issued by
the Village Clerk, and executed by the Chief of the Moweaqua Fire Protection
District or his or her designee.
   (C)   Application for the permit shall be made not less than 15 days in
advance of the date of the display on a form provided by the Village Clerk.
   (D)   A fee of $25 shall be provided by the applicant at the time the
application for the permit to be filed with the Village Clerk.
   (E)   A permit for a pyrotechnic display shall identify the lead pyrotechnic
operator.
   (F)   No permit issued hereunder shall be transferable.
(1999 Code, § 16-2-2) (Ord. 06/13/2006-2, passed 6-13-2006; Ord. 04/10/07-2,
passed 4-10-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit for a pyrotechnic display may be issued only after the Chief
or his or her designee has inspected the site and determined that the display
can be performed in full compliance with the rules adopted by the State Fire
Marshal and that the display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any
person or persons. The Chief must execute the permit before it maybe issued.
   (B)   The applicant shall have in place at the time the application is filed
and during the time the display is to be conducted, liability coverage for
bodily injury in an amount not less than $1,000,000 and for property damage in
an amount not less than $500,000 and shall furnish the village at the time of
making application for the permit, a certificate of insurance showing that such
coverage is in force and naming the village, its officers, employees and
agents, as additional insureds covered by such insurance, and including a
provision that such policy or policies may not be canceled or amended without
14 days’ prior to written notice having been given to the village.
   (C)   Every pyrotechnic display shall be conducted by a licensed lead
pyrotechnic operator who is specified in the application for the permit, and
the applicant shall provide the Village Clerk with a copy of his or her license
pursuant to the Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act, being 225 ILCS 227.
   (D)   The applicant shall include with his or her application a site plan in
sufficient detail to allow the Chief to determine that the display can be
performed in full compliance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
and that the display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person
or persons. Any revisions to the site plan required by the Chief shall be shown
on a revised site plan accompanying the permit.
(1999 Code, § 16-2-3) (Ord. 06/13/2006-2, passed 6-13-2006; Ord. 04/10/07-2,
passed 4-10-2007)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any persons violating any of the provisions of §§
92.20 through
92.22 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(1999 Code, § 16-2-4) (Ord. 06/13/2006-2, passed 6-13-2006; Ord. 04/10/07-2,
passed 4-10-2007)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS
Section
   
93.01   Destruction of park property
   
93.02   Littering; water pollution
   
93.03   Fires in parks
   
93.04   Picnics
   
93.05   Erection of structures
   
93.06   Signs
   
93.07   Animals
   
93.08   Motor vehicles prohibited
   
93.09   Sales; amusements for gain
   
93.10   Group activities
   
93.11   Application for permit
   
93.12   Decision on permit application
   
93.13   Issuance or denial of permit
   
93.14   Hours
   
93.15   Moweaqua Living Memorial Park
§ 93.01 DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   Within the municipal parks no person except park personnel on official
business shall:
   (A)   Cut, break, injure, destroy, take or remove any tree, shrub, timber,
plant or natural object;
   (B)   Kill, cause to be killed, or pursue with intent to kill any bird or
animal except in areas where the village has authorized hunting; or
   (C)   Willfully mutilate, injure or destroy any buildings bridge, table,
bench, fireplace, guidepost, notice, tablet, fence, monument or other park
property or appurtenances.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 LITTERING; WATER POLLUTION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall deposit any trash within the municipal parks
except in proper receptacles where these are provided.
      (2)   Where receptacles are not provided, all trash shall be carried away
from the parks by the person responsible for its presence and shall be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in
the waters of any fountain, lake, stream or other body of water in or adjacent
to any park or in any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such
waters any substance or thing, liquid or solid which will or may result in the
pollution of the waters.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 FIRES IN PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall light or use any unenclosed picnic fire within the
municipal parks. Fires may be built only in fireplaces or on grills constructed
for that purpose in designated areas.
   (B)   In camping areas, no person shall leave any campfire unattended by a
competent person.
   (C)   Every person who has lighted or used any fire in a municipal park
shall extinguish such fire before leaving the park.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 PICNICS.
   No person shall picnic in the municipal parks except in areas designated for
that purpose. Park personnel are hereby authorized to regulate the activities
in such areas when necessary to prevent congestion or to secure the maximum
use, comfort and convenience of all. Visitors shall comply with any directions
given to achieve this end.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall build or place any tent, building, booth, stand or other
structure in or upon any municipal park or other recreational facility unless
he or she has obtained a permit to do so from the village.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SIGNS.
   No person shall place within any municipal park or affix to any object
therein any sign or device designated to advertise any business, profession,
exhibition, event or thing unless he or she has obtained a permit to do so from
the village.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 ANIMALS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bring any dangerous animal into any municipal park;
   (B)   Permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash; or
   (C)   Ride or lead any horse in any municipal park or recreational area
except upon paths or other ways expressly provided and posted for that purpose.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person other than municipal personnel on official business shall drive or
park any motor vehicle, including snowmobiles, in any municipal park except on
a roadway or parking lot.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.09 SALES; AMUSEMENTS FOR GAIN.
   Within the parks of this municipality, no person shall, without having first
obtained a permit from the village:
   (A)   Sell or offer for sale any goods or services; or
   (B)   Conduct any amusement for gain or for which a charge is made.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.10 GROUP ACTIVITIES.
   Whenever any group or organization desires to use municipal park facilities
for a particular purpose such as picnics, parties, exhibitions or performances,
a representative of the group shall first apply for and obtain a permit for
such activity from the Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-10)
§ 93.11 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for all permits required by this chapter shall be made in
writing to the Mayor not less than seven days before the proposed date of the
activity for which the permit is sought.
   (B)   Each application shall include the following information:
      (1)   A statement briefly describing the nature of the proposed activity;
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of the person or organization
wishing to conduct such activity;
      (3)   The date when such activity is to be conducted;
      (4)   The hour when such activity will start and terminate;
      (5)   The park or portion thereof for which such permit is desired; and
      (6)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-11)
§ 93.12 DECISION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   After due consideration of the information contained in the permit
application, but not later than seven days after the application has been
filed, the Mayor shall determine whether the application is satisfactory.
   (B)   An application shall be deemed satisfactory if:
      (1)   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park;
      (2)   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the
day and hour requested in the application;
      (3)   The conduct of such activity will not substantially interrupt the
safe and orderly movement of traffic;
      (4)   The proper policing of such activity will not require the diversion
of so great a number of police officers as to prevent normal protection to the
remainder of this municipality;
      (5)   The conduct of such activity is not reasonably likely to cause
injury to persons or property or to incite violence, crime or disorderly
conduct; and
      (6)   Such activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-12)
§ 93.13 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Notification by regular mail or by telephone shall be made promptly by
the Mayor to every permit applicant of the decision on his or her application.
   (B)   If such decision is favorable, the Mayor shall issue the permit. As a
condition of the issuance of any permit, the Mayor may require that an
indemnity bond be obtained if, in his or her opinion, such bond is necessary to
protect this municipality from liability or to protect municipal property from
damage.
   (C)   The Mayor shall inform each applicant who has been denied a permit
regarding the reasons for the denial and the procedure for appeals.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-13)
§ 93.14 HOURS.
   The Village Board shall establish the hours of operation of the municipal
parks. No one shall be in the park without the Mayor’s permission after the
established hours.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-14)
§ 93.15 MOWEAQUA LIVING MEMORIAL PARK.
   (A)   The Moweaqua Living Memorial Park shall be established on the property
formerly owned by Fathauer located north of the Moweaqua High School.
   (B)   The Moweaqua Living Memorial Park shall consist of living memorial
native Illinois trees purchased by donors.
   (C)   The Moweaqua Historical Society shall be granted permission to locate
a museum on said grounds if said society so desires.
   (D)   All funds received for payment of any kind concerning the Moweaqua
Living Memorial Park shall become the responsibility of the Village Treasurer;
said funds shall be disbursed pursuant to approval by the Village Board with
the consent of the Moweaqua Trees and Beautification Committee.
   (E)   There shall be established a Moweaqua Living Memorial Park Committee
which shall consist of the President of the Board of Trustees and three members
of the Moweaqua Tree and Beautification Committee; said Committee shall serve
without compensation.
   (F)   The Moweaqua Living Memorial Park Committee shall review all plans and
undertakings of the Moweaqua Living Memorial Park and shall give an annual
report to the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to do any planning or removal from the Moweaqua
Living Memorial Park without the consent and approval of the Moweaqua Living
Memorial Park Committee.
   (H)   There shall be a penalty for any violation of this section or
destructive act committed within the park and shall be subject to a minimum
fine of $50 and a maximum fine which shall be the replacement costs of such
act.
   (I)   All utilities within the Moweaqua Living Memorial Park must work in
compliance with the Illinois Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/1 et seq.)
   (J)   Any tree care company or any entity, including citizens, performing
pruning services within the Moweaqua Living Memorial Park must use best
management practices as defined by the industry from time to time.
   (K)   Tree topping and similar practices within the Moweaqua Living Memorial
Park are strictly prohibited. This practice is defined as removing whole tops
or trees or large branches and/or trunks from the tops of trees, leaving stubs
or lateral branches that are too small to assume the role of a terminal leader.
Other common names for the practice include hat-racking, heading, rounding over
and tipping.
(Ord. 91-107, passed 10-21-1991; Ord. 2018-38, passed 9-11-2018)
CHAPTER 94: STREET REGULATIONS
Section
Department Established
   
94.001   Department established
   
94.002   Committee on Streets
General Regulations
   
94.015   Undermining
   
94.016   Open doors
   
94.017   Repairing sidewalks and the like
   
94.018   Stairway; railing
   
94.019   Closing street
   
94.020   Signs across street
   
94.021   Skateboards, bicycles and in-line skates
   
94.022   Deposits on sidewalks
   
94.023   Obstructing street
   
94.024   Rainwater drains
   
94.025   Building materials in street
   
94.026   Merchandise on public street
   
94.027   Encroachments
   
94.028   Posting bills
   
94.029   Signs on poles
   
94.030   Injury to new pavements
   
94.031   Barbed-wire fences
   
94.032   Burning on public streets
Trees and Shrubs
   
94.045   Planting
   
94.046   Planting trees in right-of-way
   
94.047   Removal
   
94.048   Injury
   
94.049   Advertisements or notices
   
94.050   Dangerous trees
   
94.051   Wires
   
94.052   Gas pipes
   
94.053   Utility work
   
94.054   Pruning
   
94.055   Tree topping
Excavations
   
94.065   Permit required
   
94.066   Applications
   
94.067   Fees
   
94.068   Bond
   
94.069   Deposit
   
94.070   Manner of excavating
   
94.071   Sidewalks
   
94.072   Restoring surface
   
94.073   Supervision
   
94.074   Tunneling
   
94.075   Protective measure and routing of traffic
   
94.076   Clearance for vital structures
   
94.077   Protection of traffic
   
94.078   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
94.079   Abandonment of substructures
   
94.080   Protection of adjoining property
   
94.081   Placement of excavated material
   
94.082   Clean-up
   
94.083   Protection of watercourses
   
94.084   Breaking through pavement
   
94.085   Depth of structures
   
94.086   Backfilling
   
94.087   Trenches in pipe laying
   
94.088   Prompt completion of work
   
94.089   Urgent work
   
94.090   Emergency action
   
94.091   Noise, dust and debris
   
94.092   Preservation of monuments
   
94.093   Inspections
   
94.094   Inspection records
   
94.095   Liability of persons to village for damage
Street Improvements
   
94.110   Sidewalks
   
94.111   Curbs and gutters
   
94.112   Storm sewers
Culverts
   
94.125   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer
   
94.126   Permit for culvert
   
94.127   Application for permit
   
94.128   Termination of permit
   
94.129   Type of culvert
   
94.130   Cost of installation
   
94.131   Backfill cost
   
94.132   Replacement cost
Driveways
   
94.145   Permits required
   
94.146   Fee
   
94.147   Grade surface
   
94.148   Specifications
   
94.149   [Intentionally omitted]
   
94.150   Repair
Snow Removal
   
94.165   Definitions
   
94.166   Snow and ice to be removed from sidewalks by private persons
   
94.167   Depositing of snow and ice restricted
   
94.168   Mayor’s authority
 
   
94.999   Penalty
DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED
§ 94.001 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government which
shall be known as the Street Department. It shall embrace the Street Committee,
the Superintendent and the employees. The Village Engineer shall serve as ex
officio officer.
(1999 Code, § 33-1-1)
§ 94.002 COMMITTEE ON STREETS.
   The Village Board Standing Committee on Streets shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Street Department. It shall ascertain the
needs and conditions thereof and shall, from time to time, report the same to
the Mayor and Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 33-1-2)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 94.015 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine in any manner, any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the village or belonging to any private person.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-1) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.016 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open, any door, any gate or the
grating of any vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her, on any
street, alley or sidewalk in the village for any purpose, except the taking in
and removing goods; and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall
warn passersby of the danger.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.017 REPAIRING SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   Whenever any sidewalk or pavement is torn up or broken, as a result of the
adjoining property owner or his or her contractor, it shall be the duty of the
adjoining property owner to repair the sidewalk or pavement.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-3)
§ 94.018 STAIRWAY; RAILING.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-4) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.019 CLOSING STREET.
   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street, alley or
public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley or public place
temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating that the
street, alley or public place is closed by order of the Mayor. Whenever such
signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon or cross such street,
alley or public place, or in any manner, destroy, deface or remove any such
sign.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-5) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.020 SIGNS ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement or banner over any or across
any street, alley or sidewalk in the village, unless he or she has written
approval of the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-6) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-17
§ 94.021 SKATEBOARDS, BICYCLES AND IN-LINE SKATES.
   There is hereby created a zone within the four block area of the
intersections of North and South Main Streets and East and West Main Streets
within the village wherein the following regulations shall apply to
skateboards, bicycles and in-line skates.
   (A)   Activity prohibited. No skateboards, bicycles or in-line skates shall
be ridden upon the sidewalks of North and South Main Streets and East and West
Main Streets for the distance of one block from the center of the intersection
of said roadways.
   (B)   Signs. Signs designating no skateboards, bicycles or in-line skates on
sidewalks shall be placed at the end of said one block area.
   (C)   Operating skateboards and the like. No person shall operate a
skateboard or in-line skates either on the roadway or on the sidewalks within
the limits of this zone inside the four block area where signs are posted.
   (D)   Operating bicycles. No person shall operate a bicycle in the zone
except that the same may be operated on the streets in conformity with state
law.
   (E)   Walking bicycles. The operation of a bicycle shall consist of riding
the same and this shall in no way be construed to restrict individuals from
walking bicycles within this zone.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-7) (Ord. 95-108, passed 7-11-1995) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.022 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk, any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and provided that no such article shall remain on such
walk for more than 30 minutes.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-8) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.023 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any material on any street which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any grass
clippings, or to cause a lawn mower to blow grass clippings onto a street or
any other articles such as glass which may cause injury to any person, animal
or property.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the village, any debris,
materials or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this code.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to exercise a vigilant
supervision over such places and to notify any person found making such deposit
or responsible for same to remove the offending matter at once.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-9) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 94.024 RAINWATER DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct, or permit the construction of, any
storm water drain or any drainage pipe in either a natural or human-made ditch
without having first obtained a permit therefor. Applications for such permits
shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be accompanied by a statement as
to the purpose of such drainage pipe, the premises to be served and the
specification of such pipe to be installed. Such application shall be referred
to the Street Superintendent and no such permit shall be issued unless he or
she shall have found that the village code would be complied with by the
installation of such storm water drain or drainage pipe and, that the
installation of such storm water drain or drainage pipe would not interfere
with, overload, obstruct or otherwise adversely affect the existing storm water
drainage system within the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the village and
it shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain
which discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than 18
inches above the ground or pavement.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-10) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.025 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   The Street Superintendent may move any obstruction on any street or sidewalk
of the village, but before doing so, he or she shall notify the person
responsible therefore to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time after
being notified. Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving
any lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such
length of time as may be necessary for the work. The obstruction shall not
extend to more than one-half of the width of the sidewalk, street or alley
adjacent to such improvement and the gutter shall always be left free and
unobstructed. At night, such person shall keep an illuminated warning light on
such material.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-11) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 94.026 MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise
for sale; or to write or make any signs or advertisements on any such
pavements, unless permission is granted by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-12) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 94.027 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-13) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.028 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of such curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk,
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door or gate.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-14) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.029 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint or fasten, or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and/or fire
alarm pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk,
street, alley or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-15) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.030 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly-laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-16) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.031 BARBED-WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designated to cause injury
to persons, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within three
feet of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way or place
unless such barbs or charged wire are at least six feet above the level of such
public place.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-17) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.032 BURNING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the
village.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-18) Penalty, see §
94.999
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 94.045 PLANTING.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Street Superintendent and
shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board. All trees and shrubs so
planted shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the Street
and Alley Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-1) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.046 PLANTING TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any bushes, trees, shrubs or other plants on
the right-of-way of any public street, including the space on the right-of-way
between the sidewalk and the adjacent street pavement.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.047 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or portion
thereof in any street, parkway or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Street Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board
before permission shall be granted.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-3) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.048 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in such public
place.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-4) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.049 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-5) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.050 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the municipality at a height less than eight feet or in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place shall be
trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which such
tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent may, at the owner’s expense, trim or remove
any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall
be done away with.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-6) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.051 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the Village Board.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality shall, in the
absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires
and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as
may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the Street Superintendent so that no injury shall
be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by their conduct.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-7) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.052 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-8) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.053 UTILITY WORK.
   All utilities must work in compliance with the Illinois Public Utilities Act
(220 ILCS 5/1 et seq.)
(Ord. 2018-39, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 94.054 PRUNING.
   Any tree care company or any entity, including citizens, performing pruning
services must use best management practices as defined by the industry from
time to time.
(Ord. 2018-39, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 94.055 TREE TOPPING.
   Tree topping and similar practices are strictly prohibited. This practice is
defined as removing whole tops of trees or large branches that are too small to
assume the role of a terminal leader. Other common names for the practice
include hat-racking, heading, rounding over and tipping.
(Ord. 2018-39, passed 9-11-2018)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or to make any excavation in any
street, alley or other public place in the village without having obtained a
permit as is herein required or without complying with the provisions of this
subchapter or in violation of or variance from the terms of any such permit.
   (B)   No permit shall be required by any person, firm or corporation for the
maintenance, upgrading and repair of previously constructed improvements. Such
person, firm or corporation shall provide notice of excavation in accordance
with the laws of the State of Illinois.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-1) (Ord. 2020-16, passed 7-14-2020) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.066 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall describe
the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the
purpose therefor, and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual
excavating work; and the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or
for which the work is being done; and it shall also contain an agreement that
the applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to
be done.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-2)
§ 94.067 FEES.
   The fee for such permit(s) shall be as follows; however, the Village Board
may waive the fees in this section:
 
Excavation in asphalt or portland cement concrete pavement or $25 per sq. ft.
surface
Excavation in brick pavement or surface                       $25 per sq. ft.
Excavation in oil-treated street surface                      $25 per sq. ft.
Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface       $25 per sq. ft.
 
(1999 Code, § 33-4-3)
§ 94.068 BOND.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the Clerk a bond in the sum of $50,000, conditioned to indemnify the
village for any loss, liability or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence or manner of guarding or constructing any such
tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to
do business in the state as a surety company. The Village Board may waive the
bond provided for herein.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-4)
§ 94.069 DEPOSIT.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
deposited with the Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of $250 if no pavement is
involved, and $1,000 if the excavation is a paved area, to insure the proper
restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any. From this deposit
shall be deducted the expense of the village of relaying the surface of the
ground or pavement and of making the refill if this is done by the village or
at its expense and the balance shall be returned to the applicant without
interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface
or pavement is restored. The Village Board may waive the deposit in this
section.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-5)
§ 94.070 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and in
excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the village department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed. No unnecessary damage or injury shall be
done to any tree, shrub or the roots thereof.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-6) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.071 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. The temporary sidewalk is subject to inspection by the Street
Superintendent and shall not be open for use until approved by him or her.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-7)
§ 94.072 RESTORING SURFACE.
   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation, or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley or other public place in the village shall restore the
surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refills shall
be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be
left in the ground. Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street
shall be repaired and the surface re-laid by the applicant in compliance with
the regulations of the village and under the supervision of the Street
Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-8)
§ 94.073 SUPERVISION.
   The Streets and Alley Committee shall, from time to time, inspect or cause
to be inspected, all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley or other place in the village to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this code. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten hours
before the work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-9)
§ 94.074 TUNNELING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the village which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any such pavement, provided that upon completion of the work
involved, the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-10) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.075 PROTECTIVE MEASURE AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or
upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for the safety of the general public.
   (A)   Barriers, warning signs and lights shall conform to the requirements
of all applicable provisions of this code. Warning lights shall be electrical
markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset of each
day to sunrise of the next day.
   (B)   Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not to replace
light sources.
   (C)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as nearly normal as
possible shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public. When traffic
conditions permit, the Street Superintendent may, by written approval, permit
the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a period of time
prescribed by him or her if, in his or her opinion, it is necessary. Such
written approval may require that the permittee give notification to various
public agencies and to the general public. In such cases, such written approval
shall not be valid until such notice is given.
   (D)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Street Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-11)
§ 94.076 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures and all other vital equipment as
designated by the Street Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-12)
§ 94.077 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle traffic
at all street intersections, where possible and safe crossing for pedestrians
at intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any excavation is made across any
public street, alley or sidewalk, adequate crossing shall be maintained for
vehicles and for pedestrians. If the street is not wide enough to hold the
excavated material without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at
least one-half of the sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk
line.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-13)
§ 94.078 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without
the written consent of the Street Superintendent and the owner of the facility.
If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done by
its owner. The facility owned by the village shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of such work is borne by the permittee. The cost of
moving privately-owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee
unless other arrangements are made with the person owning the facility. The
permittee shall support and protect, by timbers or otherwise, all pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by
the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and
protect them under, over, along or across said work. The permittee shall secure
approval of method of support and protection from the owner of the facility.
   (B)   In case of any said pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should
be damaged, and for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement or devices
are to be considered as part of a substructure, the permittee shall promptly
notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the
agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be charged
to the permittee. It is the intent of this section that the permittee shall
assume all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of
liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will
be such instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the
owning utility. The village shall not be made a party to any action because of
this section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-14)
§ 94.079 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using,
controlling or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, file with the Street Superintendent a statement in writing giving
in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If such abandoned
substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes in the way of an
installation of the village or any other public body, which installation is
pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove such abandoned
substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of excavation for
construction of the facility by the village or any other public body.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 94.080 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at all times, and at his, her or its own expense,
preserve and protect from injury, any adjoining property by providing proper
foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where, in the
protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon private property for
the purpose of taking appropriate protective measures, the permittee shall
obtain consent from the owner of such private property for such purpose and if
he or she cannot obtain such consent, the Street Superintendent may authorize
him or her to enter the private premises solely for the purpose of making the
property safe.
   (B)   At the permittee’s own expense, all buildings, walls, fences or other
property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work shall
be shored up and protected, and the permittee shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from failure to
properly protect and carry out the work. Whenever it may be necessary for the
permittee to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be reseeded or the
sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been
backfilled as required in this subchapter. All construction and maintenance
work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth
and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed
before such work began. The permittee shall not remove even temporarily any
trees or shrubs which exist is parking street areas without first obtaining the
consent of the appropriate village department or official having supervision of
such property.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 94.081 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as to eliminate
danger to those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and
so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets
and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Street Superintendent shall have the
authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the Street
Superintendent. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or
to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the
Street Superintendent to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-17)
§ 94.082 CLEAN-UP.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned
of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work.
All clean-up operations at the location of such excavation shall be
accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Street Superintendent. From time to time, as may be ordered
by the Street Superintendent, and in any event, immediately after completion of
the work, the permittee shall, at his, her or its own expense, clean up and
remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from the work, and
upon failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by
the Street Superintendent, said work may be done by the Superintendent and the
cost thereof charged to the permittee, and the permittee shall also be liable
for the cost thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-18)
§ 94.083 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the full
depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the face of
such curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting street,
an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained. The
permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water, muck, silt,
slickings or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting from sluicing
or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage resulting from its
failure to so provide.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-19)
§ 94.084 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Street
Superintendent when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   (B)   Saw cutting of portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch in depth; however, depths
greater than one inch may be required by the Street Superintendent when
circumstances warrant. Saw cutting may be required by the Superintendent
outside the limits of the excavation over cave-outs, overbreaks and small
floating sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Street Superintendent to confine pavement damage to the
limits of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and overbreaks and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the centerline of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Street Superintendent.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his or her cut results in small floating sections
that may be unstable, in which case, the permittee shall remove and pave the
area.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-20)
§ 94.085 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall, without written permission of the Street
Superintendent, install any substructure except manholes, vaults, valve
casings, culverts and catch basins at a vertical distance less than the
following.
      (1)   Streets. Twenty-four inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter. If said flow line is not established, then the depth shall be
at a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street.
      (2)   Parkway.
         (a)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 16 inches below
established gutter grade when said substructure parallels the parkway.
         (b)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 12 inches below
the top of the established sidewalk or curb when such substructure is at right
angles to the parkway.
      (3)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee to
maintain said specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of
grade in the surface unless the grade in said substructure interferes with the
maintenance of or travel on a public street.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-21) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.086 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil shall
be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the
type of soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the Village
Board. Broken pavement, large stones, roots and other debris shall not be used
in the backfill.
   (B)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of
soil involved. Such backfill shall be done in a manner that will permit the
restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that existing
prior to excavation unless otherwise specified. The Street Superintendent may
require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory or
registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in his or
her opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being adequately compacted. In
order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show that the
backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the Village
Board. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-22)
§ 94.087 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations; however at night no more than
50 feet may be open with proper barriers.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-23)
§ 94.088 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-24)
§ 94.089 URGENT WORK.
   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public
or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Street Superintendent shall have full power to order, at
the time the permit is granted, that a crew of workers and adequate facilities
be employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such excavation
work may be completed as soon as possible.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-25)
§ 94.090 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making such excavation shall apply to the Street Superintendent
for such a permit on the first working day after such work is commenced.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-26)
§ 94.091 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris and between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., shall not use, except in case of emergency as otherwise
provided herein, any tool, appliance or equipment producing noise of sufficient
volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the neighboring property.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-27)
§ 94.092 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision or a precise survey reference point or a
permanent survey benchmark within the village shall not be removed or disturbed
or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in
writing from the Village Board to do so. Permission to remove or disturb such
monuments, reference points or benchmarks shall only be granted upon condition
that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to
the proper replacement of the monument by the village.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-28)
§ 94.093 INSPECTIONS.
   The Street Superintendent shall make such inspections as are reasonably
necessary in the enforcement of this subchapter. The Superintendent shall have
the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations
as may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-29)
§ 94.094 INSPECTION RECORDS.
   Every public utility, after the enactment of this subchapter, shall maintain
records showing the location of all of its underground facilities except
relatively minor facilities which connect a particular premises or building to
a facility serving more than one premises or building and except oil or gas-
gathering or field lines. Every public utility shall maintain equipment which
can locate such facilities in the field.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-30)
§ 94.095 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO VILLAGE FOR DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provision of this code and any person or property
in consequence thereof is injured or damaged, the person so guilty of such
violation shall be liable to the village in relation thereto, and no
prosecution or other proceeding by the village of such person for any penalty
imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the village
for such damages.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-31) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 94.110 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade
of the village and in all cases where no grade is established, any person
building a sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the
Street Superintendent and the Village Board. No one shall build a sidewalk
unless it consist of new construction. No one shall remove or destroy a
sidewalk without replacing the same with a new sidewalk.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, lay or construct
any sidewalk along any property in the village or along any of the streets,
alleys or public highways thereon, without first filing an application for a
permit with the Village Clerk and approved by the Village Board.
   (C)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the Village Board
approves the request, the village shall pay the cost of the construction,
including engineering fees, and thereafter, the sidewalk shall be maintained by
the village.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(1999 Code, § 33-5-1) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
§ 94.111 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Request in writing.
      (1)   Any person owning property within the village who desires to have
new curbs and gutters constructed, along with a street adjoining his or her
premises shall file a request with the Street Superintendent, giving the
location of the property and the length of the curbs and gutters requested.
      (2)   All installations shall conform to the requirements of 65 ILCS 5/
11-80-11 and the Environmental Barriers Act, being 410 ILCS 25.
   (B)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the Village Board
approves the request, the property owner shall pay all of the cost of the
construction, including engineering fees, and thereafter, the curbs and gutters
shall be maintained by the village.
   (C)   Approval by Village Board. The approval of the request for
construction of curbs and gutters by the Village Board shall be dependent upon
the approval of funds, priority of projects and continuity of construction for
the best benefit of the village as determined by the Village Board.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(1999 Code, § 33-5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-11
§ 94.112 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Description of storm water sewers. Storm water sewers shall be any
pipe or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, ground waters, roof
leaders or storm waters, rain waters or other waters other than sanitary
sewage.
   (B)   Supervision. The Superintendent of the Street and Alley Departments
shall supervise all connections made to the public storm sewer system or
excavations for the purposes of installing or repairing the same.
   (C)   Permits. Before any connection is made to the public storm water
sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the Superintendent or his
or her designated representative.
   (D)   Requirements: use of storm water sewers.
      (1)   Where a storm water sewer is accessible in a street, alley or
easement to a building or premises abutting thereon, the surface drains, ground
waters, roof leaders or storm waters shall be discharged into the storm water
sewer unless otherwise authorized by the village.
      (2)   Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any
substance other than surface waters, ground waters, roof waters or storm waters
be permitted to flow into or be connected to the storm water sewer; and no
sanitary sewer shall be connected to the storm water sewer system.
(1999 Code, § 33-5-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
CULVERTS
§ 94.125 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR STORM SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain or storm sewer in any public
street or property.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-1) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.126 PERMIT FOR CULVERT.
   It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or replace any culvert without
first obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.127 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring a permit to install or replace any culvert shall file an
application therefor with the Village Clerk upon a form to be provided for that
purpose.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-3)
§ 94.128 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   All such permits shall terminate upon the expiration of one year following
the date of issue.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-4)
§ 94.129 TYPE OF CULVERT.
   (A)   Culverts shall be installed where driveways or walkways cross open
ditches.
   (B)   The material used for the construction of the culverts shall be
reinforced concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a minimum wall
thickness of 16 gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with a minimum
wall thickness of 16 gauge, asbestos cement storm drain pipe (Class IV) or of
such other material as determined by the Street Department, depending upon the
conditions existing.
   (C)   The culverts shall be of such size, installed at the grade and
constructed with couplings as determined by the Street Superintendent.
   (D)   The person desiring the culvert shall purchase a culvert as provided
herein and shall have it delivered on the site. The village shall install the
culvert.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-5)
§ 94.130 COST OF INSTALLATION.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, construct and install drainage inlet boxes in such form and manner as
the Street Superintendent determines necessary depending on the conditions
existing.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-6)
§ 94.131 BACKFILL COST.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, provide and place such backfill material as the Street Superintendent
determines necessary to complete the project.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-7)
§ 94.132 REPLACEMENT COST.
   The expense of replacing any culvert shall be borne by the person making
application for the permit to install the same.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
DRIVEWAYS
§ 94.145 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles across any sidewalk
in the village without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall be accompanied by the fee required.
   (C)   No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use, or for
the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served,
shall be issued except upon the order of the Village Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-1) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.146 FEE.
   The fee for all such construction shall be $25.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-2)
§ 94.147 GRADE SURFACE.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk.
   (B)   The grade shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the
adjoining sidewalk.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where
the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it
slippery and hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk or be other than level.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-3) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.148 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
specifications required by the Street Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-4)
§ 94.149 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 94.150 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-2
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 94.165 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day not a Sunday or a national holiday.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Includes all those areas zoned for business, commercial
and industrial purposes in the zoning code and accompanying map as amended or
other applicable regulations.
   BUSINESS HOURS. The hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any business
day.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(1999 Code, § 33-8-1)
§ 94.166 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED FROM SIDEWALKS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Every person in charge or control of any building or lot of land
within the village fronting or abutting on a paved sidewalk, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall remove and clear away, or cause to
be removed and cleared away, snow and ice from a path from so much of a
sidewalk as is in front or abuts on said building or lot of land. Snow and ice
shall be so removed from sidewalks in all business districts within the village
by 24 hours after cessation of any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain. The
path required to be cleared in the business district shall be six feet in
width, or the whole width of the sidewalk, whichever is smaller.
   (B)   However, in the event snow and ice on a sidewalk has become so hard
that it cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the
person charged with its removal shall, within the time mentioned in division
(A) above, cause enough sand, cinders or other abrasive to be put on the
sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably safe; and shall then, as soon
thereafter as weather permits, cause a path on said sidewalk of at least six
feet in width to be thoroughly cleaned.
(1999 Code, § 33-8-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.167 DEPOSITING OF SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and ice on or
against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, roadway or loading or unloading
areas of a public transportation system, except that snow and ice may be
windrowed on curbs incident to the cleaning of sidewalks in business districts.
(1999 Code, § 33-8-3) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
§ 94.168 MAYOR’S AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized on behalf of the village to cause sidewalks
to be cleared upon the request of the person or entity charged with snow and
ice removal. Any person or entity whose sidewalk is cleared pursuant to this
section shall reimburse the village for the costs of such clearing.
(1999 Code, § 33-8-4)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Should any person so operate a skateboard, bicycle or in-line skates
in a manner which is not in conformity with §
94.021, he or she shall have been deemed to have violated the provisions of §
94.021, and shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-7) (Ord. 95-108, passed 7-11-1995)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LIQUOR
      
111.   BUSINESS CODE
      
112.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
CHAPTER 110: LIQUOR
Section
General Regulations
   
110.001   Medical treatment
   
110.002   Transporting in motor vehicles and the like
   
110.003   Liquor in vehicles; minors
Definitions
   
110.015   Definitions
License
   
110.030   License required
   
110.031   Classification of licenses
   
110.032   Separate license required for each location
   
110.033   Sale on village property
   
110.034   Number of licenses
   
110.035   License fees
   
110.036   Payment of license fees
   
110.037   Term
   
110.038   Disposition of fees
   
110.039   Restrictions upon issuance of licenses
   
110.040   Renewal of license
   
110.041   Privilege granted by license
   
110.042   Transfer of license
   
110.043   Change of location
   
110.044   Duties of Village Clerk
   
110.045   License to be posted
Application
   
110.060   Application for license; information to be shown
Annexation
   
110.075   Annexation of licensed premises
Liquor Control Commissioner
   
110.090   Designated; enforcement of state law, ordinances and the like
   
110.091   Powers and duties
   
110.092   Hearings
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
110.105   Generally
   
110.106   Sales to any person under the age of 21; intoxicated persons and the
like; identification cards
   
110.107   Employment of minors
   
110.108   Approval of sales
   
110.109   Sanitary facilities
   
110.110   Sanitary conditions
   
110.111   Zoning
   
110.112   Peddling
   
110.113   Drinking on public way
   
110.114   Required warning signs
   
110.115   Gambling
   
110.116   Open containers
   
110.117   Nude entertainment on licensed premises prohibited
   
110.118   Adoption of state law
 
   
110.999   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 110.001 MEDICAL TREATMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent the sale by
a licensed pharmacist of any intoxicating beverage or the prescription of a
licensed physician for medical treatment.
(1999 Code, § 21-1-5)
§ 110.002 TRANSPORTING IN MOTOR VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, within the village, transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor in, upon, or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley or place, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
(1999 Code, § 21-1-7) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.003 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES; MINORS.
   The presence in a vehicle, other than a public vehicle, of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of and is
being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at which time the alcoholic
liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants therein;
or
   (B)   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(1999 Code, § 21-1-8) Penalty, see §
110.999
DEFINITIONS
§ 110.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5%, or less, of alcohol by
volume. Nor shall the provisions of this chapter apply to flavoring extracts,
concentrates, syrups or medicinal, mechanical, scientific, culinary or toilet
preparations, or food products unfit for beverage purposes, but the provisions
of this chapter shall not be construed to exclude or not apply to alcoholic
liquor used in the manufacture, preparation or compounding of such products.
None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to wine intended for use and
used by any church or religious organization for sacramental purposes.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that the affairs and management of such club are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting; and that no member or any officer,
agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in
the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   CONSUMPTION SALE. The sale or offering for sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, other than a manufacturer, who is engaged in the
village in purchasing, storing, possessing or warehousing any alcoholic liquors
for resale.
   ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. An act passed by the Fifty-Eighth Illinois
General Assembly entitled “An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors” approved
January 31, 1934, as amended.
   ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION; STATE COMMISSION. The commission created
by Article III, Section I of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5.
   IMPORTING DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who imports, or causes to be imported into
this state, any alcoholic liquor for sale or resale within the village.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the application for the license
or in the license, as the place where the business is to be carried on.
   MANUFACTURER. Every brewer, fermenter, distiller, rectifier, wine maker,
blender, processor or person who fills or refills an original package and any
other person engaged in brewing, fermenting, distilling or rectifying alcoholic
liquors as above defined.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by the manufacturer of an alcoholic liquor, to contain, and to
convey any alcoholic liquor.
   OWNER; PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons who are owners or are in control of
any place where the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on,
whether they be individuals, partners, corporations, joint stock companies,
fiduciaries or officers, directors, stockholders of corporations or otherwise.
   PACKAGE SALE. The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor,
in the original package, and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or
in part on the premises where sold.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, club, association or corporation.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Includes:
      (1)   Any public highway, street, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way;
      (2)   All property owned by the United States of America, the State of
Illinois, any municipality or any other governmental body or agency; and
      (3)   Any property, including private property, which is open to or held
out for the use of the public, other than a licensed premises, as defined
herein.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place having regular menus, which is kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are
served, and where meals are actually and regularly served, such space being
provided with adequate and separate sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment
and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of
employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT WHERE THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS NOT THE PRINCIPAL
BUSINESS. Any establishment holding a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor
where more than 50% of its gross sales or revenues for any calendar month in
the preceding 12 months are for items or services other than alcoholic liquors.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcohol for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL; SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage that contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Include soliciting or receiving any order for, to keep or expose
for sale and keep with intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
LICENSE
§ 110.030 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, within the corporate limits of the village, shall offer for sale
at retail or sell at retail alcoholic liquor without first having obtained a
license or permit to do so as provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.031 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES.
   Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall be of the following
classes.
   (A)   Class A. A Class A license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption sales and package sales on the premises of a
golf course owned and operated by a governmental body, specifically defined as
golf course owned by the village. It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for
sale at any retail, any alcoholic liquor at the village golf course before 7:00
a.m. on each day. The closing hour for each day of the week shall be 12:00 a.m.
on that day.
   (B)   Class B.
      (1)   A Class B license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
liquor by the drink and in the original package for consumption on the premises
where sold. This classification of license may only be issued for a location
defined as a restaurant, where the primary sales of the establishment are food.
Under a Class B license, it shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale at any
retail, any alcoholic liquor in the village before 6:00 a.m. on each day except
Sunday, and before 12:00 p.m. on each Sunday. The closing hour for each day of
the week shall be 12:00 a.m. on that day except for:
         (a)   Friday and Saturday, which shall be 1:00 a.m. on each following
day, respectively; and
         (b)   New Year’s Eve, which shall be 1:00 a.m. on that following New
Year’s Day.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or admit the public
to any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the
hours the sale of such liquor is prohibited; provided however, that in the case
of restaurants, clubs, hotels, motels, bowling alleys and other separate
businesses conducted on said premises, such establishments may be kept open
during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold during such hours.
   (C)   Class C. A Class C license shall entitle the licensee to make package
sales of alcoholic liquor, including wine, not to be consumed or in fact
consumed in whole or in part on the premises where sold. Under a Class C
license, it shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale at any retail, any
alcoholic liquor in the village before 6:00 a.m. on each day of the week. The
closing hour for each day of the week shall be 12:00 a.m. on that day. It shall
be unlawful to keep open for business or admit the public to any licensed
premises where alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours of sale of
such liquor is prohibited; provided, however, that in the case or restaurants,
clubs, hotels, motels, bowling alleys, filling stations and other separate
businesses conducted on said premises, such establishments may be kept open
during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold during such hours.
   (D)   Class D. A Class D license shall permit the sale at retail of beer for
consumption only in conspicuously marked video gaming areas on the premises. A
Class D license shall also permit the sale of alcoholic liquor in packages for
consumption off-premises. These licenses shall be limited in issuance to retail
grocery stores or convenience stores only that also engage in the retail sale
of gasoline and such stores shall be situated within the corporate limits of
the village. Under a Class D license, it shall be unlawful to sell, or offer
for sale at any retail, any alcoholic liquor in the village during any times
other than those hours of operation and never before 6:00 a.m. on each day of
the week, or after 12:00 a.m. on any day.
   (E)   Temporary permit. A temporary permit shall entitle the permittee to
sell at retail only beer and wine at any banquet, festival, picnic, bazaar,
fair or similar private or public assembly where food or drink is sold, served
or dispensed. Such temporary permit shall be issued only to a club, church,
society, fraternal or benevolent organization that has been organized not for
pecuniary profit. Such temporary permit shall permit the sale of beer and wine
for a period of not more than seven days, and not more than one temporary
permit shall be granted to any such club, church, society, fraternal or
benevolent organization in any one period of 30 days. Such temporary permit
shall permit the sale of beer and wine only for consumption upon the premises
where sold or served and shall not permit the sale of beer and wine in the
original package or upon any premises which are not within the village. Under a
temporary permit, it shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale at any
retail, any alcoholic liquor in the village before 6:00 a.m. on each day except
Sunday, and before 12:00 p.m. on each Sunday. The closing hour for each day of
the week shall be 12:00 a.m. on that day except for:
      (1)   Friday and Saturday, which shall be 1:00 a.m. on each following
day, respectively; and
      (2)   New Year’s Eve, which shall be 1:00 a.m. on that following New
Year’s Day.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-2) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014; Ord. 2017-6, passed
6-13-2017; Ord. 2018-25, passed 4-10-2018) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.032 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH LOCATION.
   A separate license must be obtained for each location desired by the
applicant for a license under the provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-3) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.033 SALE ON VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   The village is hereby authorized to make consumption sales and package sales
of alcoholic liquor, including wine, at the golf course owned and operated by
the village or governmental body.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-4) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.034 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The number of issued liquor licenses of each class shall be as
follows:
 
Classification Licenses
Class A        1
Class B        2
Class C        2
Class D        2
 
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person holding a valid license on
the effective date hereof may renew its license with the provisions of §
110.040.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-5) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014; Ord. 2017-6, passed
6-13-2017; Ord. 2020-12, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 110.035 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The following annual license fee shall be paid by each licensee for
the following license classification:
 
Classification Annual Fee
Class A        $0
Class B        $1,000
Class C        $1,000
Class D        $1,000
 
   (B)   The license fee for a temporary permit shall be $100.
   (C)   Any license issued to the village shall not be charged a license fee.
   (D)   The fees provided for in this section shall be collected from all
initial applicants after the effective date of this chapter. This section shall
not be construed to alter the fee of any licensee during the term for which
such license was issued, until time for renewal of such license.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-6) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014; Ord. 2017-6, passed
6-13-2017)
§ 110.036 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES.
   All fees for all classes of licenses provided in this chapter shall be paid
in full in advance of the issuance of said license.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-7) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.037 TERM.
   Each license, other than a temporary permit, shall terminate on the April 30
next following its issuance, unless sooner revoked.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-8) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.038 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All fees shall be paid to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner at the time
application is made and shall be forthwith turned over to the Village
Treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited in the general corporate fund, or in such other fund as shall have
been designated by the Board of Trustees of the village after proper action of
that body.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-9) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.039 RESTRICTIONS UPON ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   No license authorized by this chapter shall be issued to:
   (A)   Persons not of good character. A person who is not of good character
and reputation in the community in which he or she resides;
   (B)   U.S. citizenship. A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   Persons convicted of a felony. A person who has been convicted of a
felony under the laws of any state or of the United States;
   (D)   Persons convicted of keeping house of ill fame. A person who has been
convicted of being a keeper or is keeping a house of ill fame;
   (E)   Persons convicted of pandering and the like. A person who has been
convicted of pandering or other crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and
morality;
   (F)   Revocation of former license. A person, whose license issued under
this chapter, or any prior ordinance, has been revoked for any cause; and a
person who had a license under a like ordinance in another municipality or
village, that was revoked for any cause;
   (G)   Ineligibility upon first application. A person who at the time of
application for renewal of any license issued hereunder would not be eligible
for such license upon a first application;
   (H)   Co-partnerships. A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such
co-partnership shall be qualified to obtain a license;
   (I)   Corporations. A corporation, if any officer, manager or director
thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than
5% of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
village, and unless such corporation is incorporated in the state, unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified to transact business in state;
   (J)   Former conviction of federal or state law relative to alcoholic
liquor. A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to July 12, 1937, or shall have forfeited his or her bond to appear
in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (K)   Ownership of premises and the like. A person who does not beneficially
own the premises for which a license is sought, or does not have a written
lease thereon for the full period for which the license is to be issued;
   (L)   Public officials. Any law enforcing public official, any President of
the village or any other public official prohibited by the Illinois Liquor
Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5 from possession of a license; and no such
official shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor. This provision does not
prohibit the village golf course from receiving a liquor license upon
completion of the requisite application process and meeting the criteria to
receive such license;
   (M)   Ineligibility for state license. Any person not eligible for a state
retail liquor license;
   (N)   Manager. A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent who would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder;
   (O)   Dram shop insurance. Any applicant who has not obtained and provided
proof to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner of adequate dram shop insurance.
The village shall be named as a certificate holder and it will be the
responsibility of the insurer to notify all certificate holders of any
restriction or termination of said policy. Failure to maintain adequate dram
shop insurance shall be grounds for revocation of any license or permit granted
under this chapter. A licensee is required to give notice within seven calendar
days to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in the event its liquor liability
insurance is restricted in any way or terminated for any cause. A licensee must
provide prior written notice regarding any changes of liquor liability
insurance to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner 30 days prior to the changes
being made; or
   (P)   Failure to furnish information. A person who fails to furnish the
information or to make the statements required in the application for a license
as set forth in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-10) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.040 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee may renew its license at the expiration thereof; provided, that
it is then qualified to receive a license, and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought are suitable for the purpose; provided further, that
the renewal privilege herein contained shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the Village Board of Trustees from limiting or
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the village. The
requirements for and the procedure for obtaining the renewal of a license shall
be the same as that provided for in the case of an original application for a
license.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-11) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.041 PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
year after issuance or until the following April 30, whichever time is shorter,
unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter. It shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution,
but it shall terminate upon the death of the licensee; provided, that the
executor of the will, administrator of the estate of any deceased licensee or
guardian of any disabled licensee, and the trustee or debtor in possession of
any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of
alcoholic liquor, may constitute the business of the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor under order of any court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased, disabled, insolvent or bankrupt licensee until the expiration of
such license or until six months after the death, disability, insolvency or
bankruptcy of such licensee, whichever is the shorter period of time.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-12) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.042 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be considered personal and no
license may be transferred to any person.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-13) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.043 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   Any license issued under this chapter shall be for a single and particular
location. Upon application being filed with the Village Clerk for a change of
location, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may allow the location
authorized by the particular license to be changed. The form of application
shall be substantially similar to that required of an original applicant for
license. After investigation, the change of location may be approved or
rejected, as in the case of original license applications; and, if approved,
the authorized change of location shall be shown by endorsement upon the face
of the existing license. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to permit
any licensee to change the locations of its business to, or operate its
business, or a portion thereof, as a sub-tenant or otherwise at a location
which, under this chapter, would be prohibited or denied to an original
applicant.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-14) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.044 DUTIES OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   The Village Clerk shall receive all license applications, and issue all
licenses when directed to do so by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, and
perform such other duties and functions as are assigned by this chapter. The
Village Clerk shall also furnish routine stenographic services to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner upon request.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-15) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.045 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   Every licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall cause its license
to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-16) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
APPLICATION
§ 110.060 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN.
   (A)   Any person desiring a license authorized by this chapter shall make
application therefor to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. A separate
application shall be made for each license desired by the applicant. Such
application shall be in writing upon forms prepared and furnished by the
Village Clerk. Each application for a license shall be signed by the applicant
and verified by the applicant by oath or affidavit, and shall be filed with the
Village Clerk. In case the applicant is a partnership, all partners must sign
and verify the application. In case the applicant is a corporation or club, all
officers and directors, and any stockholders owning more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, must sign and verify the application and indicate their
official position. In case any other person is to conduct the place of business
as manager or agent of the licensee, that person must also sign and verify the
application. The information requested in the application form must be
furnished as to each person signing the application.
   (B)   Each application shall contain the following information and
statements:
      (1)   Name, age and address. The name, age and address of the applicant
in the case of an individual; in the case of a partnership, the names and
addresses of the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; in the case
of a corporation or club, the object for which organized, and the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and of any stockholder owning more
than 5% of the stock of such corporation; and, in any case, the name and
address of the manager or agent who is to conduct the place of business for
which the license is sought. A club shall attach to its application one copy of
a list of the names and residences of its members;
      (2)   Citizenship. The citizenship of the applicant, and if a naturalized
citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   Location. The location where the applicant proposes to engage in
the business for which the application was submitted, and whether or not the
proposed location is within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for
aged or indigent persons or for war veterans, their wives or children, or of
any military or naval station;
      (4)   Sale of food. Whether food for human consumption is to be sold in
such place of business if the application is allowed.
      (5)   Ownership of premises; name of landlord. Whether the applicant owns
the premises for which a license is sought, and if not, the name of the
landlord and the terms of the lease;
      (6)   Disposition of other applications. Whether the applicant has made
application for a similar or other license on premises other than those
described in this application and the disposition of such other application;
      (7)   Suspension or revocation of previous licenses. Whether or not any
license issued to the applicant under this or previous ordinances relating to
alcoholic liquor has ever been suspended or revoked;
      (8)   Former conviction relative to decency or morality. Whether or not
the applicant has ever been convicted of being the keeper or an inmate of a
house of ill fame, of pandering or of any other crime or misdemeanor opposed to
decency or morality;
      (9)   Connection with houses of ill fame. A statement that the applicant
is not at the time of making the application, connected with a house of ill
fame;
      (10)   Former conviction of felony and the like. Whether or not the
applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, and whether or not the applicant
is disqualified to receive the license sought by reason of any manner or thing
contained in the laws of this state or this chapter;
      (11)   Agreement not to violate ordinances and the like. A statement that
the applicant agrees not to violate any provision of this chapter or other
ordinances of this village or any law of the United States or of this state in
the conduct of the business, and that in the event such promise is broken or if
any statement contained in the application is not true, that the license
applied for may be immediately suspended or revoked;
      (12)   Residence in village. Whether or not the applicant, if an
individual, or whether each partner, in the case of a partnership, is a bona
fide resident of the village;
      (13)   Agreement to testify under oath and, as required, allow record of
fingerprints. A statement that the applicant will testify under oath to all
relevant and material questions propounded to him or her, in any hearing
conducted by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, either before or after the
issuance of a license to the applicant, and that the applicant’s failure to so
testify shall be sufficient reason for the refusal to issue any such license to
the applicant, or the renewal thereof, or for the suspension or revocation of
any license which has been issued to the applicant; and, a statement that the
applicant, if requested by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, will permit a
record of the applicant’s fingerprints to be made by the Police Department of
the village for the purpose of additional background investigation to determine
whether the application should be granted; and, further, the applicant shall
pay for all costs associated with obtaining fingerprints and/or background
investigations; and also shall provide all information necessary to conduct the
aforementioned background investigation;
      (14)   Statement as to receipt of money or credit from manufacturers or
distributors. A statement that the applicant has not accepted, received or
borrowed money, or anything else of value, or accepted or received credit
(other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of business for a
period not to exceed 30 days) directly or indirectly from any manufacturer,
importing distributor or wholesaler of alcoholic liquor, or from any
stockholder or officer of any corporation engaged in, or any other person
connected with any such business; and
      (15)   Connection with Police Department. Whether or not the applicant,
his or her spouse, or any member of the applicant’s household is a member or
employee of the Police Department of the village and whether or not any member
or employee of the police department of the village is interested in any way,
either directly or indirectly, in the license applied for, the premises, or the
profits or proceeds from the sale of alcoholic liquor under the license applied
for.
(1999 Code, § 21-4-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
ANNEXATION
§ 110.075 ANNEXATION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   Whenever the village annexes land upon which a licensed premises is
situated, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may issue a license of
substantially the same classification as the license that the licensee of the
annexed premises had prior to annexation, provided that the licensee and the
licensed premises meet the requirements of all laws and ordinances applicable
to the regulation of the sale of alcoholic liquors, except that no annual
license fee shall be charged for the period of time for which said licensee has
previously paid any other local governmental jurisdiction.
(1999 Code, § 21-5-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER
§ 110.090 DESIGNATED; ENFORCEMENT OF STATE LAW, ORDINANCES AND THE LIKE.
   The President of the village shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
and shall be charged with the administration of the appropriate provisions of
the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5, of this chapter, and of such
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations relating to alcoholic liquor as
hereinafter may be adopted. Whenever, in this chapter the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall be referred to, it shall include such other persons as may
be appointed by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to assist him or her in
the performance of the duties herein provided for him or her.
(1999 Code, § 21-6-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.091 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The President of the village shall serve as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the this chapter
and of such other ordinances relating to alcoholic liquor as may be, from time
to time, enacted by the Village Board.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers
and duties with respect to local liquor licenses:
      (1)   To grant, or to suspend for not more than 30 days or to revoke for
cause, all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within the
village;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer or other village
employee designated by the Village Clerk to enter, at any time, upon the
premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of the
state law or village ordinance or any rules or regulation adopted by the
village or by the State Liquor Control Commission have been or are being
violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the licensee in
connection therewith;
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen within the village that any
provisions of the state law or of this chapter has been or is being violated
and to act upon any such complaints in the manner provided by law;
      (4)   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for
a local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation has been served, or any licensee against whom a citation proceeding
has been instituted by the State Liquor Control Commission; to examine, or
cause to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee,
and to hear testimony and take evidence for use in the performance of the
Commissioner’s duties, and for the information of the Commissioner to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state. Other persons may
be designated by the Commissioner to take action for the purpose of obtaining
any of the information desired by the Commissioner under this section;
      (5)   To appoint any other member of the Village Board to serve as Deputy
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, which person shall have full authority to
exercise, in the absence of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, any of the
powers and duties enumerated herein, except as the Commissioner may
specifically exclude by such appointment; and
      (6)   To report to the Village Board from time to time actions which have
been taken to grant or deny liquor licenses or to penalize licensees.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any
license issued by him or her if he or she determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of state law pertaining to the sale of alcohol
or of any valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the Village Board or any
applicable rule or regulations established by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner or the State Commission which is not inconsistent with law. In
addition or as an alternative to the suspension, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may levy a fine on the licensee for such violations. The fine
imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for a first violation within a 12-month period,
$1,500 for a second violation within a 12-month period, and $2,500 for a third
or subsequent violation within a 12-month period. Each day on which a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than $ 15,000 in
fines under this division (C) may be imposed against any licensee during the
period of his or her license. Proceeds from such fines shall be paid into the
General Corporate Fund of the village. However, no such license shall be so
revoked or suspended, and no fine shall be imposed, except after a public
hearing by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with at least three days’
prior written notice, to the licensee, as provided in the Illinois Liquor
Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5, as now or hereafter amended, affording the
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. If the licensee fails to appear
for such public hearing after receiving notice as provided in the Illinois
Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5, a default judgment may be entered and the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend the license, and/or
impose a fine.
   (D)   If the Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation
of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community, the Commissioner may, upon the issuance of a written order stating
the reason for such conclusion, and without notice or hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period; provided, if such licensee shall
also be engaged in the conduct of another business on the licensed premises,
such order shall not be applicable to such other business.
   (E)   (1)   In determining the appropriate penalty for violating any of the
provisions of this chapter or any state law pertaining to the sale of alcohol,
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may consider such matters and information
as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner deems are relevant including, but not
limited to, the nature and circumstances surrounding the violation, the past
record of the licensee and the penalties previously imposed by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner for similar violations.
      (2)   The past record shall include the record of the current licensee as
well as the record of any other existing or prior licensee where there is, or
was, substantial common identity between the owners of the current licensee and
the owners of such other licensee.
      (3)   Where the licensee under consideration, or such other prior or
existing licensee, is a business entity such as a corporation or partnership,
the ownership interest includes the equity holding of the stockholder or
partner.
      (4)   The consideration of the past record of such other or prior
licensee shall only include that time period when such common identity is
found.
   (F)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, as promptly as
practicable and, in any event, within five days after such hearing, if the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines after such hearing that the
license should be revoked or suspended, and/or a fine should be imposed, state
the reasons for such determination in a written order of revocation or
suspension, and/or a fine should be imposed and shall serve a copy of such
order upon the licensee.
(1999 Code, § 21-6-2) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.092 HEARINGS.
   For the purpose of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, in his or her discretion,
hold public hearings at any time within the village concerning any matters
embraced within this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 21-6-3) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 110.105 GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or admit the public to
any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours
of sale of such liquor is prohibited; provided however, that in the case of
restaurants, clubs, hotels, motels, bowling alleys, filling stations and other
separate businesses conducted on said premises, such establishments may be kept
open during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold during such hours.
   (B)   The Liquor Commissioner, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board, may approve the extension of closing hours on specific days, upon
request of any licensee. Such extension of said closing hours, if approved,
shall apply only to the licensee requesting the same.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.106 SALES TO ANY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21; INTOXICATED PERSONS AND THE
LIKE; IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No licensee, its agent or employee, shall sell, give or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated
person or to any person known by it to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift or
insane, feeble-minded or distracted person.
   (B)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase, or accept a gift or delivery of
alcoholic liquor from any licensee, or any agent or employee of a licensee, or
on any licensed premises, nor shall any such person have alcoholic liquor in
his or her possession. No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining
alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another
person under the age of 21 years except in the performance of a religious
ceremony or service, or under the direct supervision and approval of the
parents or parent of such person in the privacy of a home.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
represent that he or she is of the age of 21 years for the purpose of gaining
eligibility status under this chapter or for the purpose of evading its age
restriction. No person shall transfer, alter or deface an identification card,
obtain an identification card by means of false information, or use the
identification card of another, for the purpose of violating this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.107 EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   No licensee, nor any agent or employee of any licensee, shall permit any
person under the age of 21 years to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in
said premises, provided that a person 19 or 20 years of age and over employed
at an entity holding a Class A, Class B or Class D Liquor License who has
completed the Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training
Program (BASSET) approved by the Educational Foundation of the National
Restaurant Association may serve alcoholic beverages to patrons of the licensed
premises if the service of such beverages is only incidental to that person's
primary duties of employment. If a licensee shall utilize any person 19 or 20
years of age to serve alcoholic beverages, the licensee must have a person 21
years or older on the premises to supervise any and all persons under the age
of 21 engaged in serving alcoholic beverages. Further the licensee must keep on
file at all times a Certificate of Completion of the BASSET program for all
persons 19 and 20 years of age who are engaged in serving alcoholic beverages
incidental to their primary duties of employment.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014; Ord. 2019-17, passed
10-8-2019; Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-12-2021) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.108 APPROVAL OF SALES.
   Every licensee operating under the provisions of this chapter shall so
conduct its licensed premises that every sale of alcoholic beverages is
approved on behalf of the licensee by a competent adult person so designated by
the licensee.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.109 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every holder of a Class A or B license shall provide separate toilets and
washstands for male and female patrons, and shall maintain the same in a clean
and sanitary condition.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.110 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such alcoholic liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with any ordinances regulating
the condition of the premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.111 ZONING.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to permit the sale of alcoholic
liquors in any place where the conduct of such business is prohibited under the
terms and provisions of any zoning or similar ordinances of the village.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.112 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor within the corporate limits
of the village.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.113 DRINKING ON PUBLIC WAY.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any public way, public
right-of-way or public property (including, but not limited to, public
highways, streets, alleys, parking lots or sidewalks) within the corporate
limits of the village. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the
consumption of alcoholic liquor by patrons of the permittee having a temporary
permit at any banquet, picnic, bazaar, fair or similar private or public
assembly where food or drink is sold, served, or dispensed, so long as such
consumption occurs exclusively on property that is licensed for that particular
event.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.114 REQUIRED WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   Every licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall cause the
following warning message to be posted in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises at or adjacent to any cash register.
   (B)   In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there
shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall
read substantially as follows:
 
WARNING
IF YOU ARE UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A CLASS A
MISDEMEANOR AND YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE OF UP TO $2,500 IF YOU ATTEMPT TO
PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE
FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. OFFICIAL
GOVERNMENT-ISSUED PHOTO IDENTIFICATION WILL BE REQUIRED TO PROVE AGE BEFORE
PURCHASE.
 
WARNING TO SERVERS AND SELLERS OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
IF YOU SELL, GIVE OR DELIVER ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR TO A PERSON LESS THAN TWENTY-ONE
YEARS OF AGE, YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A MINIMUM FINE OF $200 UNDER THE MOWEAQUA
LIQUOR CONTROL ORDINANCE. OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT-ISSUED PHOTO IDENTIFICATION
SHOULD BE REQUESTED FROM PATRONS TO PROVE AGE BEFORE MAKING A PURCHASE.
 
   (C)   Posters for displaying the warning message shall be furnished to each
licensee by the Village Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.115 GAMBLING.
   No gambling shall be permitted and no gambling device shall be kept in any
premises licensed or permitted pursuant to this chapter. This prohibition,
however, shall not apply to any game or gaming event for which a license or
permit has been issued by the State Department of Revenue or the State Gaming
Board pursuant to the Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act, 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq., the
Bingo License and Tax Act, 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq., the Illinois Video Gaming
Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. or the Charitable Games Act, 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.,
or any statute of similar import, so long as such game or gaming event is
conducted in compliance with all requirements of said acts and all rules and
regulation of the state acting through its Department of Revenue or any other
agency having jurisdiction thereof.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.116 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   No licensee, or his or her officer, employee or agent shall permit, and such
persons are in fact obligated to attempt to prevent, without causing a breach
of the peace, any person on the licensed premises with consuming, carrying,
possessing, transporting or having any open container of any alcoholic liquor
on any public property. This section shall not apply to a temporary permit
specifically authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquors on public property.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.117 NUDE ENTERTAINMENT ON LICENSED PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall permit any person, while on the premises and in public
view to:
   (A)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or anal cleft;
   (B)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give to appearance
or simulate his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or anal cleft;
   (C)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of his or her genitals, pubic
hair, buttocks, anus or anal cleft;
   (D)   Permit any female to expose that area of the human breast below the
top of the areola;
   (E)   Permit any female to employ any device or covering which is intended
to give the appearance of or simulate that area of the human breast below the
top of the areola; or
   (F)   Permit any female to appear without a fully opaque covering of that
area of the human breast below the top of the areola.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.118 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   All of the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5,
as now or hereafter amended, and of the rules and regulations issued by the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission, which are or may hereafter be in force,
which are applicable to the village, are hereby incorporated into and declared
to be a part of this chapter the same as if they were expressly set forth
herein.
(1999 Code, § 21-7-2) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to punishment for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. Any person or entity, other than a licensee, violating any provision
of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $500 for
each offense. In addition to any other penalty, a licensee convicted of
violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to having its license
revoked, suspended or not renewed by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee, and the employer of licensee shall be punishable in
the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him or
her personally.
(1999 Code, § 21-8-1) (Ord. 03/31/2014, passed 3-31-2014)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS CODE
Section
Administration
   
111.001   Applications
   
111.002   Persons subject to license
   
111.003   Form of license
   
111.004   Investigations
   
111.005   Fees
   
111.006   Termination of licenses
   
111.007   Building and premises
   
111.008   Change of location
   
111.009   Location
   
111.010   Inspections
   
111.011   Appeal
   
111.012   License to be posted
Nuisances Prohibited
   
111.025   Generally
   
111.026   Unsafe or unhealthful business
   
111.027   Refuse disposal
Working Conditions
   
111.040   Health requirements
   
111.041   Sanitation
   
111.042   Heat required
   
111.043   Inspection
Suspension, Revocation of License or Permit
   
111.055   Nuisance
   
111.056   Hearing
   
111.057   Revocation
   
111.058   Hearing notice
   
111.059   Counsel
Solicitors
   
111.070   Definitions
   
111.071   Certificate of registration
   
111.072   Applications
   
111.073   Policy on soliciting
   
111.074   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.075   Compliance by solicitors
   
111.076   Time limit on soliciting
   
111.077   Solicitations on public highways
   
111.078   Fees
Peddlers
   
111.090   License required
   
111.091   Definition
   
111.092   Application
   
111.093   Investigation of applicants
   
111.094   Hours
   
111.095   Fraud
   
111.096   Photographs
   
111.097   Unwanted peddling
   
111.098   Peddlers as nuisance
   
111.099   Duty of police to abate
   
111.100   Local businesses and farmers excluded
   
111.101   Fees
Raffles
   
111.115   Definitions
   
111.116   License requirements
   
111.117   Application
   
111.118   Licensee qualifications
   
111.119   License issuance
   
111.120   Conduct of raffles
   
111.121   Raffles manager
   
111.122   Records
   
111.123   Implementation
Junk Dealers
   
111.135   Definitions
   
111.136   Physical requirements
   
111.137   License required
   
111.138   Application
   
111.139   Disqualification
   
111.140   License
   
111.141   License fee
   
111.142   Minors
Bed and Breakfast Code
   
111.155   Established
   
111.156   Definitions
   
111.157   Food service
   
111.158   Soap, towels and linen
   
111.159   Fire safety
   
111.160   Proof of insurance
   
111.161   Taxes
   
111.162   License
   
111.163   Fees
   
111.164   Suspension, revocation or non-renewal of license
   
111.165   Building code compliance
   
111.166   Exterior design standards
   
111.167   Interior design standards
   
111.168   Nuisances
   
111.169   Parking standards
   
111.170   Signage
   
111.171   Operator qualifications
   
111.172   Enforcement agencies
   
111.173   Right of access to premises
Trash Haulers; Refuse Collection
   
111.185   Definitions
   
111.186   Refuse containers required
   
111.187   License required
   
111.188   Required equipment
   
111.189   Forms from Clerk
   
111.190   Hearing by Mayor
   
111.191   Denial of permit
   
111.192   Surety bond
   
111.193   Equipment disrepair
   
111.194   Disposal location
   
111.195   Customer list
   
111.196   Rates
   
111.197   Vehicle requirements
   
111.198   License fee
   
111.199   Appeal
   
111.200   Village Council appeal
   
111.201   Council decision
   
111.202   License; vehicle condition
   
111.203   Extension of repair
   
111.204   Vehicle inspection record
   
111.205   Payment required
 
   
111.999   Penalty
ADMINISTRATION
§ 111.001 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this chapter
shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk in the absence of provision to
the contrary.
   (B)   Each application shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The permit or license desired;
      (3)   The location to be used, if any;
      (4)   Zoning district, if any;
      (5)   The time covered; and
      (6)   The fee to be paid.
   (C)   Each application shall also contain the number the certificates of
registration required under the Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act being 35 ILCS
120, Service Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use Tax Act, if applicable. Each
application shall contain such additional information as may be needed for the
proper guidance of the municipal officials in the issuing of the license or
permit applied for.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 111.002 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever a license or permit is required in this chapter or any municipal
ordinance for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation,
any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the requirement if by
himself, herself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he, she
or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity or occupation,
or if he, she or it solicits patronage therefor actively or passively; or if
he, she or it performs or attempts to perform any part of such business,
activity or occupation in this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 111.003 FORM OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk under
the corporate seal, and no license shall be valid until signed and
countersigned as aforesaid, nor shall any person be deemed to be licensed until
the same shall have been issued to him or her in due form.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 111.004 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Clerk, within 48 hours shall refer the
application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of such investigation
or inspection,
   (B)   The official(s) to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise within ten days after receiving such
application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or the County Health Department shall make or
cause to be made an inspection regarding such permits and licenses as relate to
the care and handling of food, the prevention of nuisances and the spread of
disease, and the protection of health. (If a zoning code is in effect, the
Zoning Administrator shall make or cause to be made any inspections which
relate to compliance with the zoning code and other related regulations.) All
other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the
Chief of Police or by some other officer designated by the Mayor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Clerk shall
forward such reports, together with the application, to the Mayor for
evaluation and determination.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the Mayor that the matters and circumstances
relating to an application require further information before a proper
determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the Clerk for
the inclusion of such additional information as may be specified necessary and
appropriate.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained with the
application and the related investigative reports, the Mayor shall determine
that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory, he or she may
disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor. Thereupon, the
Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that his or her
application is disapproved and that no license or permit will be issued.
   (G)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the Mayor shall determine
that the application, is satisfactory, he or she shall approve the application.
Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that
his or her application is approved, and the license or permit may be issued.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 111.005 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Clerk in the amounts prescribed by the corporate authorities.
When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until after the
expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall be prorated by
quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof during which the
business or activity has been or will be conducted. Except as otherwise
provided, all license and permit fees shall become a part of the corporate
fund. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license or permit
fee, or part thereof, by reason of death or departure of the licensee or
permittee; nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of non-use of the
license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed
establishment, business or activity.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 111.006 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for this
municipality shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April
30 of the following year, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Clerk shall notify all licensees of this municipality of the time
of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual), three weeks
prior to the date of such expiration; provided, however, that a failure to make
such notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse
the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new licensee or a renewal thereof,
nor shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation without a license.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 111.007 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of this municipality and the state. No such license or permit shall
be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would
involve a violation of this chapter and/or other applicable regulations of this
municipality. (See
Chapter 155, zoning code, of this code of ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 111.008 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of any
permitted act may be changed, provided that ten days notice thereof is given to
the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided further,
however, that all applicable ordinances and regulations of this municipality
shall be complied with. (See
Chapter 155, zoning code, of this code of ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 111.009 LOCATION.
   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in this
municipality shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business
or establishment in more than one location in this municipality; a separate
license shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For
the purpose of this chapter, the existence of a single location shall be
evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory
uses shall be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel; shall be
operated and managed by the same person or owner; and shall be an establishment
with the same classification.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 111.010 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of any ordinance or regulation of this municipality, or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any
officer or employee of this municipality who is duly authorized to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of this municipality requesting the same, sufficient
samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in this
municipality who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or employee to
make such inspection or to take adequate sample(s) of said commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject to revocation for
such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused permission to enter
upon the premises in the name of this municipality after having first presented
a warrant authorizing such entry.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-12)
§ 111.011 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor regarding the denial of an
application for a business license as provided in §
111.004 or in connection with the revocation of a license or permit as provided
in §§
111.055 through
111.059 shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board. Such appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Clerk, within ten days after notice of a denial of
an application or a revocation of a license or permit, a written statement
under oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The Mayor shall
thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee or permittee in the
same manner as provided in §§
111.055 through
111.059. The decision of the Village Board on such appeal shall be final.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-14)
§ 111.012 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in this
municipality to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-15)
NUISANCES PROHIBITED
§ 111.025 GENERALLY.
   No business or establishment, whether licensed or not, shall be so conducted
or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact, and no building, vehicle or
structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof shall be used, kept, maintained
or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as to occasion
any nuisance or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to health.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-10.1) Penalty, see §
111.999
Editor’s note:
   The County Health Department should be consulted.
§ 111.026 UNSAFE OR UNHEALTHFUL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No building or structure utilized, constructed or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary, unsafe
or dangerous condition.
   (B)   No substance, matter or thing of any kind whatsoever, which would be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in any work or labor performed in
this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-10.2) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.027 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Refuse containers. The standard refuse container required by this
chapter shall be a receptacle of not less than 20, nor more than 32 gallons
capacity, constructed of impervious material and sturdy construction with a
tight-fitting cover, and equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate
handling.
   (B)   Duty to provide refuse containers.
      (1)   The occupant of every building, structure or premises used or
maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall provide and
maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient number of refuse containers
for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating between collections.
      (2)   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside any
building or structure must be kept in standard refuse containers.
   (C)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse produced therein.
   (D)   Removal of restaurant garbage. Every person owning or controlling any
hotel, restaurant, café, or retail food establishment where more than 32
gallons of refuse, is normally produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be
placed in sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all substances deposited
in such containers to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be
disposed of at his or her own expense.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-10.3) Penalty, see §
111.999
WORKING CONDITIONS
§ 111.040 HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   No owner, lessee, manager or superintendent of any store, factory, workshop
or other place where persons are employed shall cause or permit such place or
any room or part thereof to be overcrowded or inadequate or faulty in respect
to light, ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-11.1) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.041 SANITATION.
   All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean condition, free from
effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable or other nuisance(s); also as far as
practicable, such premises shall be free from all gases, vapors, dust or other
impurities generated by manufacturing processes or otherwise which are
injurious to health. Sufficient washroom facilities for male and female
employees shall be provided and such facilities shall be properly ventilated.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-11.2) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.042 HEAT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the heating
plant which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop to maintain a temperature
within such factory or workshop of not less than 62°F without such undue
restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions
therein; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply to any
factory or workshop where the business conducted therein is of such a nature
that a higher or lower temperature than 62°F is necessary or expedient for the
work or manufacturing processes of such business.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the heating
plant which furnishes heat to any office, store or other place of employment to
maintain a temperature therein of not less than 62°F, without such undue
restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions
therein between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. from October 1 of each
year until June 1 of the succeeding year, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-11.3) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.043 INSPECTION.
   The Mayor or the Chief of Police shall visit or cause to be visited all
places of employment in this municipality as often as he or she shall deem
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and to have
such arrangements made as may be deemed necessary for the health and safety of
the employees.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-11.4)
SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT
§ 111.055 NUISANCE.
   When the conduct or operation of any business or establishment, whether or
not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and present
danger to the public health, safety or general welfare, the Mayor shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any license or permit for a period not to
exceed ten days.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-13.1)
§ 111.056 HEARING.
   Within eight days after he or she has so acted, the Mayor shall call a
hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license or permit
should be revoked.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-13.2)
§ 111.057 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses and permits issued in this municipality, unless otherwise
provided, may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing as provided in
§§
111.056 and
111.058 for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of code provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit,
or the premises occupied;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owed to this municipality; or
      (5)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized officer or employee in the performance of his or her
duties in making such inspections, as provided in §
111.010.
   (B)   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable code regulations of this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-13.3)
§ 111.058 HEARING NOTICE.
   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be given
in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the licensee or permittee at his or her last known
address at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-13.4)
§ 111.059 COUNSEL.
   At the hearing, the attorney for the municipality shall present the
complaint and shall represent the municipality. The licensee or permittee shall
be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-
examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-13.5)
SOLICITORS
§ 111.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 111.071 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting as herein defined from persons
within this municipality is hereby required to make written application for a
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. All resident charitable,
nonprofit organizations in this municipality which have been in existence for
six months or longer shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 111.072 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   All applications will be processed no later than ten working days
after submission.
   (B)   Application for a commercial solicitation permit shall be made to the
individual designated by the Mayor or his or her designee upon a form provided
by the village. The person (applicant) shall truthfully state in full on the
application the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person applying for the permit;
      (2)   The name and address of each person in charge of and supervising
the commercial solicitation in the village;
      (3)   The names addresses and dates of birth of all individuals who will
engage in commercial solicitation in the village for that person;
      (4)   The nature and purpose of the solicitation;
      (5)   The requested dates for solicitation;
      (6)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for a solicitation permit under this subchapter;
      (7)   Whether a solicitation permit issued to the person under this
subchapter has ever been revoked;
      (8)   Whether the person (applicant) or any individual listed in this
division (B) has ever been convicted of a violation of any provisions of this
subchapter, or the ordinances of any other Illinois municipality regulating
commercial solicitation;
      (9)   Whether the person (applicant) or any individual listed in this
division (B) has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of
the State of Illinois or any state, or of a federal law of the United States
within five years of the date of application; and
      (10)   Any additional information that the individual designated by the
Mayor, or his or her designee, may need necessary to process the application.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to a person:
      (1)   If the application is not truthfully completed as required by
division (B) above;
      (2)   If the person has been convicted of a violent felony or crime of
dishonesty under the laws of the State of Illinois, any other state, or under
the federal law of the United States within five years of the date of the
application;
      (3)   If the person has been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or similar ordinances within two years of the date
of the application;
      (4)   If the person engages for the purpose of commercial solicitation
any individual who has been convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of
such offenses as enumerated in the separate sections above; or
      (5)   If any solicitation permit issued hereunder has previously been
revoked as herein provided.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 2017-20, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 111.073 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is declared to be the policy of this municipality that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in this municipality shall make the determination
of whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective
residences. If no determination is made as is provided in §
111.075, then in that event, registration is not required.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 111.074 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions.
   (A)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches in size
shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
      “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED”
      or
      “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (C)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting the same, at the cost thereof.
   (D)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 111.075 COMPLIANCE BY SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in this
municipality upon which a residence as herein defined is located to first
examine the notice provided for in §
111.074 if any is attached and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.
   (B)   If the notice states “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration as herein provided
for shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the
notice states, “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor, whether registered
or not shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (C)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 111.076 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located
thereon, or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting as herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. of any
weekday or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-9) (Ord. 12/10/13-2, passed 12-10-2013) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.077 SOLICITATIONS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public highways
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The charitable organization must be one that is registered with the
Attorney General for the state as a charitable organization as provided by “An
Act to Regulate Solicitation and Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes,
Providing for Violations Thereof, and Making an Appropriation Therefor,”
approved July 26, 1963, as amended, being 225 IlCS 460;
   (B)   Solicit only at intersections where all traffic from all directions is
required to come to a full stop;
   (C)   Be engaged in a state-wide fundraising activity;
   (D)   Be liable for any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent;
   (E)   Any person so engaged in such solicitation shall be at least 16 years
of age and shall wear a high visibility vest;
   (F)   Solicit only during daylight hours; and
   (G)   Any one charitable organization shall be limited to conducting no more
than two solicitations per calendar year.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1006
§ 111.078 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall be as follows.
   (A)   Application fee shall be $100.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the permit fee shall be $50 per
person, per day. The company requesting permission to solicit must submit an
application for each person that will be soliciting. The fees are non-
refundable.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-11) (Ord. 12/10/13-2, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2017-20, passed
10-10-2017)
PEDDLERS
§ 111.090 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.091 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLE. The selling, bartering, or exchanging or the offering for sale,
barter or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the streets,
highways or public places of this municipality or from house-to-house, whether
at one place thereon or from place-to-place, from any wagon, truck, pushcart or
other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall not include
the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of items along delivery
routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller to stop and
exhibit his or her items. Nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the solicitation
of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered at the time the order is
taken.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 111.092 APPLICATION.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the Clerk and providing the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant’s criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application to this municipality and the
address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 111.093 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, who shall investigate the business and moral character of the
applicant. If the facts show the applicant unfit to receive the license, then
it shall be denied.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 111.094 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to engage in peddling
as herein defined prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any weekday or at
any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-5) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.095 FRAUD.
   No licensed peddler or hawker shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee
while acting as a peddler in this municipality, or shall barter, sell or peddle
any goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-6) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.096 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant and such of its employees as will be used
in the peddling or merchandising taken within 60 days immediately prior to the
filing of the application, which pictures shall be two inches by two inches,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant or its agent(s) and/or employee
(s) in a clear and distinguishing manner.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 111.097 UNWANTED PEDDLING.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter, nor the issuance of any license
hereunder shall entitle the licensee to go in or upon any private residence for
the purpose of peddling if such licensee, his or her agents or employees are
directed to depart from said private residence by the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-8) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.098 PEDDLERS AS NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments or offices in the municipality by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise without having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of
said private residences and business establishments or offices for the purpose
of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking of merchandise is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and is punishable as a violation of this subchapter. No person
shall peddle in a public square.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-9) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.099 DUTY OF POLICE TO ABATE.
   The Police Department of this municipality is hereby required and directed
to suppress the same and to abate any such nuisance as described in §
111.098.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 111.100 LOCAL BUSINESSES AND FARMERS EXCLUDED.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business, firm or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the municipality or to farmers selling any food
items raised or produced by themselves and/or to permanently established
residents who are voters in the municipality or anyone duly licensed.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-11)
§ 111.101 FEES.
   (A)   The license fees per person to be charged for licenses to peddle in
this municipality, each payable in advance, are hereby fixed and established as
follows:
      (1)   Daily license: $10 per person per day; and
      (2)   Annual license: $50 per person per year.
   (B)   See 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-12)
RAFFLES
§ 111.115 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES or COUNCIL. The governing body of the municipality.
      BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civic interests of a community.
      CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must confer benefit upon the public generally.
      CLERK. The County Clerk of the County of Shelby, State of Illinois.
      EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide instruction by methods common to schools and institutions
of learning which compare in their scope and intensity but are not necessarily
limited to the course of study presented in tax supported public schools.
      FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of person having a common
interest, the primary interest of which is to both promote welfare of its
members and provide assistance to the general public.
      LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization of workers with the objective of
betterment of the conditions in their respective occupations.
      LICENSEE. An organization which has been issued a license to operate a
raffle as provided under this subchapter.
      NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less sums
expended for prizes, license fees and other normal and reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a direct result of the raffle.
      NONPROFIT. An organization which is operated and conducted on a not-for-
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to the benefit of any one
individual as a result of said operation.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, organization, public or private
corporation, government, partnership or unincorporated association.
      RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2, subparagraph (b) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, conducted by an organization licensed under this
subchapter in which:
         (a)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a
chance, presented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of
numbers, or by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be
designated the winning chance; and
         (b)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
      RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. A church congregation, society or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
      VETERANS ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of
members who are veterans or spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, the
primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of its members and provide
assistance to the public.
   (B)   The definitions contained in 230 ILCS 15/2 are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set out herein.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 15/1
§ 111.116 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell, offer for
sale, convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a raffle unless
done in accordance with this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.117 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle within the
incorporated limits of this municipality shall file an application therefor
with the Clerk on the forms provided by the Clerk.
   (B)   Said application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and type of organization;
      (2)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and the
date of birth of the organization’s presiding officer, secretary, raffles’
manager and other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the
raffle;
      (4)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the
raffle;
      (5)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
      (6)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
      (7)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
      (8)   The area in which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      (9)   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      (10)   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      (11)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
applicant organization signed by its presiding officer and secretary;
      (12)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct; and
      (13)   A fidelity bond of the raffle manager in an amount equal to the
aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded shall accompany said
application.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 111.118 LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to a bona fide business,
charitable, educational, fraternal, labor, religious and veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years or more immediately before making
application for a license and which have and during that entire five-year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out the purpose of said
organization.
   (B)   The following are ineligible for any raffle license:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed.
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) above is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle as defined in this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-4) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 111.119 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk shall review all raffle license applications and approve or
deny the same within 30 days from the date of application. If an application is
approved, the Clerk shall issue a raffle license to be valid for a period of
time stated in the application, but in no event longer than one year.
   (B)   The raffle license shall limit the area in which raffle chances may be
sold or issued to the corporate limits of this municipality, and where
applicable the county and the municipalities located therein, and shall show
the period of time during which raffle chances maybe sold or issued. The
license shall also show the date, time and location at which the winning
chances will be determined.
   (C)   The license shall be prominently displayed at the time and location of
the determination of the winning chances.
   (D)   The fee for each license shall be in an amount to be, from time to
time, determined by this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-5) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 111.120 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the licensee.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person shall receive remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale or issued only within the
area specified on the license and the winning chances may be determined only at
the location specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-6) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 111.121 RAFFLES MANAGER.
   The operation and conduct of a raffle shall be under the supervision of a
single raffle manager designated by the licensee. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond equal in the amount to the aggregate retail value of all prizes
to be awarded in favor of the licensee, conditioned upon his or her honesty in
the performance of his or her duties. The terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given, in writing, to the Clerk not less than 30 days prior to
the cancellation of such bond.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-7) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 111.122 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts and net
proceeds for each raffle. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as
to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Raffle records shall be preserved for three years, and such records
will be made available for inspection by the Clerk at reasonable times and
places.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-8) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 111.123 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Mayor and the Village Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to enter
into an agreement with the county for the implementation of this subchapter to
provide for the orderly regulation of raffles in this municipality and in the
county.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-10) (Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992)
Editor’s note:
   Political committees are required by 230 ILCS 15/8.1 to secure raffle
licenses from the State Board of Elections.
JUNK DEALERS
§ 111.135 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Scrap and old iron, steel, chain, brass, copper, magnesium, aluminum,
tin, lead or other base metals, scrap lumber, old rope, old bags, rags, waste
paper, paper clippings, scraps of woolens, clips, bagging, rubber and glass,
and empty bottles of different kinds of sizes when the number of each kind or
size is less than one gross, any wrecked or dilapidated motor vehicle, engine
or machinery received, stored or held for more than 90 days, and all articles
and things discarded or no longer used as a manufactured article composed of or
consisting of any one or more of the materials or articles herein mentioned.
   JUNK DEALER. Every person, firm, partnership or corporation that shall
engage in the business of buying, selling, bartering or exchanging, or shall
collect, receive, store or hold in possession for sale, barter or exchange, any
of the things in and by this section defined as JUNK.
   JUNK YARD. The premises on which a junk dealer is engaged in the business of
buying, selling, bartering, exchanging or collecting, receiving, storing or
holding in possession for sale, barter or exchange, any of the things in and by
this section defined as JUNK. (Also see
Chapter 72 and §§
91.001 through
91.005 and
91.040 through
91.046 of this code of ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 111.136 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum physical requirements at all times for each junk yard shall be
as follows.
   (A)   The premises where the junk yard is located shall not have more than
two entrances thereto and two exits therefrom, each of which shall not exceed
15 feet in width at the perimeter of the premises.
   (B)   The premises where the junk yard is located shall be enclosed on its
perimeter with a solid, non-transparent, vertical wall or fence of a minimum
height of seven feet measured from ground level, excepting for the entrances
and exits permitted by division (A) above.
   (C)   The aforesaid solid, non-transparent wall or fence and the gates or
doors, if any, at the aforesaid entrances and exits shall not contain any sign,
poster or advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, excepting one sign of the
licensee thereon not exceeding 100 square feet in size.
   (D)   The public streets and alleys adjacent to the junk yard shall not have
junk thereon.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-2) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.137 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, conduct or
operate a junk yard within the corporate limits of the village without first
obtaining a license to do so as herein provided.
   (B)   A separate license shall be secured for each junk yard located on non-
contiguous lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.138 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before any license under the provisions of this section is issued, any
person desiring to operate a junk yard in this village shall first make a
verified application in writing to the Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary, stating thereon the full name of the applicant, his or her residence
address, the trade name of the applicant, the legal description of the premises
where the junk yard is to be located, the size and approximate location of each
entrance thereto and exit therefrom, whether or not the premises where the junk
yard is to be located is enclosed on its perimeter with a solid, non-
transparent wall or fence of a minimum height of seven feet, measured from
ground level, excepting the entrances and exits, and whether or not the public
streets and alleys adjacent to the premises where the junk yard is to be
located have junk thereon.
   (B)   If the applicant is a firm of partnership, the names and residence
addresses of all the partners and in the case of a corporation, the names and
residence addresses of the president and secretary shall be stated in the
application.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 111.139 DISQUALIFICATION.
   Any applicant for a license to keep, maintain, conduct or operate a junk
yard shall be disqualified for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Not a person of good character;
   (B)   Falsification of an application for a license hereunder;
   (C)   License for a junk yard theretofore issued to the applicant has been
revoked during the preceding 24 months; and
   (D)   Failure to meet any one of the minimum physical requirements for a
junk yard as specified in §
111.136.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-5)
§ 111.140 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any and all licenses issued hereunder shall state that such license is
issued in the name of the junk dealer solely for the purpose of keeping,
maintaining, conducting and operating a junk yard, the expiration date thereof,
the legal description of the premises where the junk yard is to be located,
that the license shall be used and the privileges thereof exercised only at the
described premises, and that such license is non-assignable and non-
transferable.
   (B)   Such license shall further provide that it is issued subject to all
the provisions of this chapter; that upon the first conviction for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, in addition to the fine, such junk
yard shall remain closed for a period of 30 days; that upon the second
conviction for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
license shall become null and void, and the licensee shall forfeit all sums
paid for such license, and that the licensee, by the acceptance of such license
expressly agrees to all the terms and conditions thereof, and to the terms and
provisions of this section and all amendments thereto.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-6) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.141 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee for each junk yard shall be $200 payable in
advance with the filing of the application for license, and shall not be
subject to prorata reduction for a portion of the year, either because of the
application for or because of revocation of a license; provided, however, that
only one annual license fee shall be payable for licenses which may be issued
whenever the applicant desires to keep, maintain, conduct or operate junk yards
on lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land which are situated on directly
opposite sides of and abut upon each side of a public street or alley.
   (B)   Where such place of business is not located in the village, but the
operator carries on the business of buying or collecting or bartering for the
items heretofore enumerated within the village, the annual fee shall be $200
for each junk dealer.
   (C)   The fee is payable as provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-7)
§ 111.142 MINORS.
   No licensee hereunder shall purchase or receive any article whatsoever from
any minor, without the written consent of his or her parents or guardians.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-3
BED AND BREAKFAST CODE
§ 111.155 ESTABLISHED.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Bed and Breakfast
Code”.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-1) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.156 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than four guest rooms
for rent. The only “full service” meal the establishment shall service is
breakfast. Breakfast and light refreshments/snacks may be provided to the
guests only. BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include motels, hotels,
boarding houses or food service establishments.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Zoning Administrator.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the Moweaqua Fire Department.
   GUEST ROOM. A sleeping room intended to serve no more than two adult
transient guests and one child per night.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The village’s duly appointed and acting Health Officer, or
duly licensed and acting Health Officer of the County Health Department.
   OPERATOR. The owner of the bed and breakfast establishment, or the owner’s
agent, who is required by this subchapter to reside in the bed and breakfast
establishment, or on contiguous property.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-2) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.157 FOOD SERVICE.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments which serve food shall comply with
the minimum standards of the Illinois Bed and Breakfast Act, being 50 ILCS 820
and shall meet the County Health Department Food Service Rules and Regulations
for Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
   (B)   Those requirements being as follows.
      (1)   Food shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage, free from
adulteration and misbranding, safe for human consumption and minimally handled.
Containers of food shall be stored six inches off the floor, on clean racks,
shelves or other clean surfaces in such manner as to be protected from splash
or other contamination. Milk of only pasteurized Grade A may be used. Use of
home canned food is prohibited, except for jams and jellies.
      (2)   Food shall be protected from contamination while being stored,
prepared and served, and during transportation. Perishable foods shall be
stored at temperatures that will protect them against spoilage. Potentially
hazardous food shall be maintained at safe temperatures of 45°F or below, or
140°F or above, as appropriate, except during necessary periods of preparation
and serving. Frozen foods shall be kept at temperatures that will keep them
frozen, except when being thawed for preparation. Potentially hazardous frozen
food shall be thawed at refrigeration temperatures or below, quick thawed as
part of the cooking process, or thawed by another method approved by the Health
Officer. An indicating thermometer shall be located in each refrigerator and
freezer. Raw fruits and vegetables shall be washed thoroughly before use.
Stuffing, poultry and pork products shall be cooked to heat all parts of the
food at least 165°F before being served. Cooking food temperatures shall be
checked by a 0° to 220°F metal-stemmed thermometer. Salads made of meat,
poultry, potatoes, fish, shellfish or eggs and other potentially hazardous
prepared food, shall be prepared from chilled products with a minimum of manual
contract. Portions of food once served to an individual may not be served
again. Laundry facilities shall be separated from food preparation areas. Live
animals shall be excluded from food preparation area.
      (3)   No person knowingly infected with a communicable disease that may
be transmitted by food handling may work in a bed and breakfast establishment.
      (4)   If the bed and breakfast operator suspects that any employee,
family member or the operator himself or herself has a communicable disease,
the operator shall notify the Health Officer immediately.
      (5)   All operators, or at least one employee of each bed and breakfast
shall be certified within six months of licensing by the County Health
Department. Certification shall be achieved by successfully completing an
examination offered by the local Health Officer as described in the current
edition of the Illinois Department of Public Health Food Service Sanitation
Code.
      (6)   Persons preparing or service food or washing utensils shall wear
clean outer garments and maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness. They
shall wash their hands thoroughly before starting work and as often as
necessary while working to remove soil and contaminants. After visiting a
toilet room, persons shall wash their hands thoroughly with hand soap and dry
their hands with paper towels in a lavatory but never in the kitchen sink.
      (7)   No one, while preparing or serving food, may use tobacco, alcohol
or mind or mood altering drugs or medication in any form.
      (8)   Utensils shall be kept clean and in good repair.
      (9)   Multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned
after each use. Facilities needed for the operations of washing, rinsing and
sanitizing shall be provided.
      (10)   Pots, pans, and other utensils used in the preparation or serving
of food or drink and all food storage utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned and
sanitized after each use. Cooking surfaces of equipment, if any shall be
cleaned at least once each day. Non-food contact surfaces of equipment shall be
cleaned at intervals that will keep them in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (11)   Residential three compartments sinks with drain boards and home-
style mechanical dishwashing machines which achieve a 165°F wash and rinse
temperature are acceptable facilities for washing multi-use eating and drinking
utensils. Utensils shall be air dried.
      (12)   Immediately following either manual or mechanical washing of
eating and/or drinking utensils, and pots, pans and other cooking utensils,
these utensils shall be effectively sanitized by being submerged in a
hypochlorite solution with a chlorine concentration continuously maintained in
one hundred parts per million, or another approved sanitizing solution which
shall be used at the concentration tested and approved by the Health Officer.
Dishpans may be used to accomplish the final sanitizing rinse.
      (13)   The reuse of single-service utensils is prohibited.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-3) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.158 SOAP, TOWELS AND LINEN.
   Each person who is provided accommodations shall be provided individual soap
and clean individual clothes and towels. Clean bed linen in good repair shall
be provided for each guest who is provided accommodations and shall be changed
between guests and as often as necessary. Clean linen shall be stored and
handled in a sanitary manner.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-4) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.159 FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments shall meet the State Fire Marshal’s
requirements and Fire Department requirements for one- and two-family
dwellings.
   (B)   In addition, the following minimum standards shall be required.
      (1)   Manual fire extinguishing equipment shall be provided on each floor
in accordance with NFPA 10 - Standards for the Installation of Portable Fire
Extinguishers.
      (2)   All combustibles or flammable liquids shall be stored in approved
metal containers. There shall be no combustible storage in or under stairways.
      (3)   All trash receptacles shall be metal and lavatory receptacles shall
have covers.
      (4)   No cooking facilities shall be permitted in guest rooms.
      (5)   All hallways and stairways shall be adequately lighted. Emergency
lighting shall be required.
      (6)   No portable heating devices shall be permitted in guest rooms.
      (7)   The operator shall submit a floor plan of bed and breakfast
establishments to the Fire Chief.
      (8)   Smoke detectors shall be provided.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-5) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.160 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   The bed and breakfast establishment shall provide proof of effective
liability insurance that insures the license from liability for personal injury
and property damage of not less than $100,000 per person.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-6) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.161 TAXES.
   The bed and breakfast establishment shall fulfill the requirements of the
State Department of Revenue, including the payment of any applicable hotel
taxes and sales taxes.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-7) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.162 LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a bed and breakfast establishment
within the corporate limits of the village without having a license from the
village. Application for a license to operate a bed and breakfast establishment
shall be made to the Village Clerk, in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall be verified by oath or affirmation shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and description of the bed and breakfast establishment
which is to be operated under the license; and
      (3)   Whether the applicant has made similar application for a similar
license on premises other than described in the application and whether such
application was granted or denied.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-8) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.163 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an initial license shall be $75 and the fee for a renewal
of a license shall be $75. Each license issued hereunder shall be valid for one
year and must be renewed each year thereafter in order to remain valid.
   (B)   Upon application being prepared and executed by the applicant, it
shall be submitted to the Village Clerk who shall refer the same to the County
Health Officer, the Zoning Administrator and the Fire Chief for their
inspections and recommendations. The village may withhold action on the
application for 30 days for the inspection of the proposed bed and breakfast
establishment premises before taking action thereon. No license shall be issued
or renewed without a recommendation to do so by the Health Officer, Zoning
Administrator and Fire Chief.
   (C)   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be displayed in plain
view and in a conspicuous place on the first floor of licensed premises.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-9) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.164 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR NON-RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   The village may suspend, revoke or refuse to renew a license issued under
this subchapter for good cause, as determined by the Village Board. Annually,
the Health Officer, the Zoning Administrator and the Fire Chief may inspect
each bed and breakfast establishment in the village for the purpose of
determining whether such inspection reveals that a bed and breakfast
establishment is not in compliance with this subchapter, the establishment’s
license shall be suspended, revoked or not renewed, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding anything in this section of the subchapter to the contrary, no
such license shall be suspended, revoked or not renewed except after a public
hearing by the Village Board with at least three days’ prior written notice to
the licensee, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear in person and/or
by his or her legal counsel and to be heard by the Village Board. The service
of such notice may be made by delivering a copy of said notice to the licensee
personally or by delivering a copy of said notice to some person who resided in
the bed and breakfast establishment premises who is over 18 years of age and
informing such person of the contents of such notice. The village shall, within
five days after such hearing, advise the licensee in writing whether his or her
license shall be suspended, revoked or not renewed; stating in said order of
suspension, revocation or non-renewal the reason or reasons for such
revocation, suspension or non-renewal. When the defect or defects complained of
in the order of suspension, revocation or non-renewal are corrected by the
licensee or his or her duly authorized agent, the licensee’s license shall be
reinstated or renewed.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-10) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.165 BUILDING CODE COMPLIANCE.
   Prior to the issuance of a license to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, the establishment’s buildings and facilities shall be inspected
by the Zoning Administrator to determine that same are in general compliance
with the building code, if any.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-11) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.166 EXTERIOR DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Minimal outward modification of structure or grounds may be made only if
such alterations are compatible with the character of the area or neighborhood,
or may be necessary to meet health, safety and sanitation requirements.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-12) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.167 INTERIOR DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Any modification of the interior space shall maintain the architectural
integrity or historic character, except as may be necessary to meet health,
safety and sanitation requirements.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-13) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.168 NUISANCES.
   A bed and breakfast establishment shall not generate any offensive noise,
smoke, dust or any interferences noticeable at or beyond the lot lines.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-14) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.169 PARKING STANDARDS.
   In addition to the required parking for the principal residence in
accordance with
Chapter 155, zoning code, one parking space per guest room shall be provided.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-15) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.170 SIGNAGE.
   A non-illuminated identification sign of no more than three square feet in
size affixed to and parallel with the front first floor exterior wall of the
building or mounted stationary sign in the front grounds.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-16) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.171 OPERATOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   Only persons of good moral character shall be eligible for a license under
this subchapter. Any licensee who fails to operate an orderly and reputable bed
and breakfast establishment may be subject to suspension, revocation or non-
renewal of his or her license under this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-17) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.172 ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
   The Health Officer, Village Zoning Administrator and Fire Chief are hereby
designated as agents of the village of the purpose of furnishing
administrative, inspection and supervisory services under this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-18) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 111.173 RIGHT OF ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The Health Officer, Building Commissioner, Fire Chief and other duly
authorized agents, officers and employees of the village, shall have the right
to come upon and be upon the premises of the bed and breakfast establishment,
with or without notice, at any reasonable time, to inspect the premises of the
establishment to determine that the same are being operated and maintained in
good and safe order and repair and in compliance with this subchapter and the
other applicable chapters and ordinances of the village.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-19) (Ord. 90-109, passed 10-8-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 820/1 to 820/8
TRASH HAULERS; REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 111.185 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INSPECTOR. The Mayor of the village or the agent designated by him or her
for that purpose.
   REFUSE HAULING VEHICLE. Any vehicle of any kind used in hauling refuse to
any disposal area at any time whether such use be casual or infrequent, or
regular, except such vehicles owned or operated by any incorporated city,
village or town used only in hauling refuse to a refuse disposal area
maintained exclusively by such city, village or town.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-1) (Ord. 07/08/2008-2, passed 7-8-2008)
§ 111.186 REFUSE CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee or occupant of every dwelling,
tenement house, lodging house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house or other
person, persons, firm or corporation, on whose premises, refuse containers
sufficient to hold all kitchen and household refuse which may accumulate on the
premises, between collections, such containers to be of metal or plastic,
water-tight, and with a tight-fitting cover or plastic, and equipped with
suitable handles, and of such sizes as to be easily handled by one person;
which containers shall be placed at ail times so as to be readily accessible
for removal and emptying, and where they shall not be a public nuisance. No
person, firm or corporation, unless authorized and licensed for the purpose, as
hereinafter specified, shall interfere with such containers or the contents
thereof. All other refuse may be placed in a separate fireproof receptacle,
readily accessible for emptying or removal, and of such size as to be easily
handled by one person, and where such receptacles shall not be a public
nuisance. All such refuse shall be removed at least twice each week.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-3) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.187 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of collecting
refuse or be permitted to haul, convey, or transport over and upon the streets
or roads of the village, any refuse as defined or other materials giving off
noxious odors, unless he or she shall first secure an annual refuse collection
license. Only one license shall be issued for such business for the village.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-4) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.188 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   No applicant shall be granted a license until he or she shall have provided
himself or herself with the proper and necessary machinery and appliances for
properly taking care of and disposing of said refuse in conformity with this
subchapter and the health regulations of the state. Such applicant must own
each vehicle used by him or her in the business or refuse collection. No
license shall be granted to any applicant who has been guilty of any violation
of any health or sanitary provision of any city, village or unincorporated town
in the state.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-5) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.189 FORMS FROM CLERK.
   All applications for annual refuse collection licenses shall be made on
forms provided by the village and shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-6) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.190 HEARING BY MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall within 30 days after the filing of each application,
other than renewal, hold a hearing thereon to determine whether said issuance
of said license would be necessary and desirable in the light of promotion and
protection of the health of the residents of his or her district and the
control of disease therein.
   (B)   In such determination the Inspector shall consider as factors therein,
but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The areas to be served by the applicant;
      (2)   Whether public convenience and necessity required the issuance of
such license;
      (3)   The equipment to be used by the applicant in operating under such
licenses; and
      (4)   The ability of such applicant to properly operate and maintain the
proposed service.
   (C)   No such grant of license shall be construed as a monopoly or an
exclusive privilege, immunity or franchise.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-7) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.191 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   In the event an application for license is denied by the Mayor, another such
application for license by the same applicant shall not be filed within the
period of one year from the date of such denial. No annual refuse hauling
license shall be issued to any person who, or any firm or corporation which, or
any other officer of which, shall have been convicted of any violation of this
subchapter within three years next preceding the date of application for such
license.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-8) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.192 SURETY BOND.
   Before a license hereunder shall be issued each applicant shall execute and
deliver to the village, a surety bond in the penal sum of $1,000 running to the
village, such bond to be conditioned that such applicant shall at all times
conduct an orderly business and that he or she shall at all times observe and
comply with the ordinances of the village relative to the license issued
hereunder, and that such licenses will pay all fines, penalties and costs which
such licensee may incur for any violation of any ordinance of the village, and
further that he or she will provide for his or her customers the full service
for which they may have made any payment in advance.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-9) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.193 EQUIPMENT DISREPAIR.
   If during the period covered by the license granted, the licensee shall
permit his or her equipment to fall into disrepair or fail to keep the same in
a sanitary condition when not in use or fail to keep the same up to the
standard required by this subchapter, or fail to obey any of the provisions of
this subchapter, or to give adequate service, the license may be revoked in the
manner provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-10) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.194 DISPOSAL LOCATION.
   The licensee must designate in his or her application the location of the
places where he or she intends to dispose of refuse collected by him or her.
Any change in such location shall be at once reported to the Mayor. No refuse
shall be dumped at places which are in violation of the zoning code of the
county, or other ordinances of this county, and of any city or village in this
county.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-11) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.195 CUSTOMER LIST.
   The licensee shall at all times keep a list of the names of his or her
customers and his or her addresses and shall, upon request, deliver a copy of
the same to the Mayor. He or she shall also keep, at all times, a map and a
description of the compact area in which he or she renders service, and shall,
upon request, deliver a copy of same to the Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-12) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.196 RATES.
   The rates for hauling refuse shall be fair and reasonable. The licensee at
the time of his or her application for a license must turn over to the Mayor,
his or her schedule of rates for services rendered. Any change in such schedule
must, at the time of taking effect, be reported to the Mayor, in writing. No
charge will be made other than on the basis of such rate schedule on file with
the Mayor. This schedule shall include private contracts.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-13) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.197 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   All licensees and all vehicles used in the collection of refuse shall
conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   Vehicles shall at all times be kept in a neat, clean and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   Vehicles shall be kept thoroughly cleaned so that when empty they will
give off no offensive or obnoxious odors.
   (C)   Vehicle beds shall be of the packer-loader type and shall be in good
operating condition for all haulers who operate regularly scheduled routes
collecting from individual home owners or of a covered water tight metal bed in
good operating condition in all other cases.
   (D)   Vehicles shall not be overloaded.
   (E)   Vehicles shall not be parked on the public way of the village in any
one place for a period longer than is necessary to dispose of the refuse of the
customer being immediately served.
   (F)   Vehicles shall at all times be kept neatly painted.
   (G)   Vehicles shall be inspected under the direction of the Mayor, on or
near January 1 and July 1 each year, and at such times as he or she may direct.
   (H)   The bed of any vehicle used for hauling refuse from without the limits
of the village, into and over the public way of said village must comply with
the regulations in this section provided. No refuse shall be brought into the
county from a location outside the county without prior consent of the Village
Council.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-14) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.198 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee shall be $25 for each vehicle used. All license shall expire
on August 31 in each year.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-15) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.199 APPEAL.
   An appeal may be taken from the decision of the Mayor, in any case covered
by this subchapter, by the person aggrieved thereby. Such appeal shall be taken
within a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of the issuance of the
decision on the matter appealed from, by filing with the Village Clerk, a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds therefor.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-16) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.200 VILLAGE COUNCIL APPEAL.
   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal the Village Clerk shall forthwith
transmit notice thereof to the Mayor, who shall thereupon place the matter upon
the agenda of the Village Council, of the meeting next following, whereupon the
Village Clerk shall forthwith notify the party or parties involved of the date,
time and place of said hearing.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-17) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.201 COUNCIL DECISION.
   The Village Council may reverse of affirm wholly or in part, or may modify
the order or decision of the Mayor, as in the Village Council’s opinion ought
to be done in the premises, and to that end shall have all powers for the
officer from whom the appeal is taken; provided however, that no decision of
the Village Council may be reversed without two-thirds favorable vote of all
members of the Village Council, present and voting.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-18) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.202 LICENSE; VEHICLE CONDITION.
   No person, firm or corporation owning, controlling or operating any vehicle
used for the purpose of transporting, carrying or hauling refuse in this
village shall cause or permit any vehicle to be so loaded, out of repair,
constructed or operated that any refuse with which such vehicle is loaded or is
being loaded or unloaded shall drop, fall, be blown upon, or be otherwise
deposited, or some upon any public way or place other than a refuse disposal
area for which a license has been issued, as provided above.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-20) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.203 EXTENSION OF REPAIR.
   Reasonable extensions of time to accomplish corrections may be granted by
the Inspector or the Village Council, upon request in writing showing good
cause for such extension.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-21) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.204 VEHICLE INSPECTION RECORD.
   The Inspector shall keep an annual record showing the date of inspection of
each licensed refuse hauling vehicle.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-22) (Ord. 08/12/2008-2, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 111.205 PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   All owners of residential premises in the village shall subscribe to, and be
a customer of, the licensee for refuse removal for the residential area
containing the premises, as described herein, and it shall be unlawful, and a
violation of this section, for any such owner to fail at any time to be fully
and lawfully entitled to receive refuse removal service from such licensee. It
shall be a defense to any prosecution for a violation hereof that the licensee
from whom the property owner is required to receive service has failed to
provide such service in material breach of the provisions of this chapter or
any other applicable law or ordinance, or in material breach of any lawful
agreement between the owner and licensee.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalty for soliciting without the proper permit or at homes with
signage according to §
111.074, shall be the sum of the application fee, the permit fee and the
penalty described in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for each solicitor found to have violated any
provision of §§
111.070 through
111.078.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the provisions of §§
111.115 through
111.123 shall constitute a violation and each day such violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500. The imposition of penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the Municipal Attorney for this municipality or
the State’s Attorney of the county from instituting appropriate action to
prevent unlawful raffles or restrain, correct or abate a violation of §§
111.115 through
111.123 or of the conditions of a raffle license issued pursuant thereto.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-9)
(Ord. 92-108, passed 5-26-1992; Ord. 2017-20, passed 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 112: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
112.03   Public nuisance declared
   
112.04   Violations
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter,
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER or CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other
necessary activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing
organization or use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER or CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform
necessary activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to
licensed cannabis business establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION or DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A
facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the
Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire
cannabis from licensed cannabis business establishments for the purpose of
selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds,
paraphernalia or related supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered
medical cannabis patients and caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION or INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION or PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION or TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 2019-21, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 112.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the Village of Moweaqua. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to
be operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of
Moweaqua of any of the following:
   (A)   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower;
   (B)   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center;
   (C)   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization;
   (D)   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser;
   (E)   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor; or
   (F)   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter.
(Ord. 2019-21, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 112.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
village in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 2019-21, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 112.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions
of §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2019-21, passed 12-10-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND DECENCY
      
133.   WEAPONS
      
134.   PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Definitions
   
130.01   Meanings of words and phrases
General Provisions
   
130.15   Criminal Code adopted
   
130.16   Admission fees; fraudulently avoiding payment of
   
130.17   Aid in escape
   
130.18   Escapes
   
130.19   False pretenses
   
130.20   Renting premises for unlawful purposes
   
130.21   Aid to an offense
   
130.22   Games in street
   
130.23   [Intentionally omitted]
   
130.24   Abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes
   
130.25   Theft of recyclables unlawful
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see 720 ILCS 2-1 et seq.
   Illinois Criminal Code adopted, see 720 ILCS
DEFINITIONS
§ 130.01 MEANINGS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this title, the words and phrases of the 720 ILCS 2-
1 through 2-11, 2-13 through 2-16, 2-19 and 2-20, as approved, adopted and
amended are hereby adopted by the village, as fully as if set out herein.
(1999 Code, § 27-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.15 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS, as passed, approved and amended by the
Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted by the village; the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village;
provided, however, the penalties as provided by this code of ordinances shall
apply.
(1999 Code, § 27-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2, 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1
§ 130.16 ADMISSION FEES; FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful to rescue or attempt to rescue, or shall abet or
encourage the rescue or escape of any person from the custody of any officer or
other person legally having him or her in charge, or shall molest or interfere
with any officer or other person so legally having him or her in charge, or
shall, in any manner, aid, abet or encourage the rescue or the attempt to
escape, from any person legally committed thereto, or shall supply or attempt
to supply any such person with any weapon or with any implement or means
whereby an escape might be affected, or with any intoxicating liquors, drugs or
other article(s) without the consent of the officer in charge.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-7
§ 130.18 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-6(C)
§ 130.19 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter public places and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or to
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares and/or merchandise.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.20 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use, or allow to be used, any
building or property owned by him or her, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22 GAMES IN STREET.
   No person shall, upon any village street, fly any kite or play any game of
ball or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or
annoy any person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED].
§ 130.24 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS OR ICEBOXES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox or ice chest, of a capacity of
one and one-half cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door which
may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch. The owner, lessee
or manager of such place, who knowingly permits such abandoned or discarded
refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain there in such condition, shall be
guilty of violating this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 505/1
§ 130.25 THEFT OF RECYCLABLES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess or pickup
any recyclable item(s) from any receptacle or collection point where service is
provided by an authorized waste hauler licensed by the municipality or from any
specified recycling center within the village limits unless said person is
acting as an agent for the village or acting as an agent for a waste hauler
licensed by the village.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Petty theft
   
131.02   Criminal damage to property
   
131.03   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus, hydrants or equipment
   
131.04   Injury to utility wires and poles
   
131.05   Street signs; molesting of prohibited
   
131.06   Tampering with public notice
   
131.07   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
131.08   Unlawful conduct on a public way
   
131.09   Posting bills
   
131.10   Posting of signs in boulevards or public rights-of-way
   
131.11   Storage of explosives
   
131.12   Throwing rocks
   
131.13   Destruction of public property
Trespass
   
131.25   Trespass prohibited
   
131.26   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 PETTY THEFT.
   (A)   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under
$300 and he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
      (2)   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner;
      (3)   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner; and
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him or her to believe that the property was stolen:
         (a)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit
of the property;
         (b)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; and
         (c)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property, knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-1) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-1
§ 131.02 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Any of the following acts by a person shall be a violation of this section:
   (A)   To knowingly damage any property of another without his or her
consent;
   (B)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of another;
   (C)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby, intend to interfere with the use by another of the land or building.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with
or destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or
other public or private firefighting equipment or any apparatus appertaining to
such equipment, or to intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper
authorization.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-3) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1.1
§ 131.04 INJURY TO UTILITY WIRES AND POLES.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
injure or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, post or wire, or any
electric lightpost, pole, or electric conductor, wire or lamp or any other
thing connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas
main, pipe or hydrant or lamp or lamppost, or anything belonging to or
connected therewith or with any of them.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-4) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 STREET SIGNS; MOLESTING OF PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form, to
deface, disfigure, damage or molest any of the street signs or parts thereof
located in the village.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-5) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly and without lawful authority
alter, destroy, deface, remove or conceal any public notice, posted according
to law, during the time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-6) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-9
§ 131.07 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electrically-
charged fence or barbed wire or other such sharp, pointed fence below eight
feet in height, except in an agricultural or conservation zone district.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-6) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT ON A PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person’s use
of a public way.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-10) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement, or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door or gate; provided,
however, that this section shall not prevent posting by proper village and
county officials of election signs, polling place signs and other signs or
placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except they may
not be attached to a tree.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-16) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 POSTING OF SIGNS IN BOULEVARDS OR PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, attach or post within the
village any sign, advertisement, notice or billboard on village boulevards or
public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 96-108, passed 10-8-1996) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine, dynamite and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess or store at or in any place within the village, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess or store
any gun or blasting powder or any gun or explosive cotton at or in any one
place in the village in any quantity exceeding five pounds.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-22) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-8-4
§ 131.12 THROWING ROCKS.
   No person in the village shall, throw or cast any rock or stone or any other
missile upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or
at any person in any street, avenue, alley or public place.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-23) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person in the village shall deface, destroy, or in any way, injure any
public property, or any other apparatus of the village.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-24) Penalty, see §
131.99
TRESPASS
§ 131.25 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit a
trespass within this municipality upon either public or private property.
(1999 Code, § 27-6-1) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.26 SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED TRESPASSES; SUPPRESSION.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of §
131.25, any of the following acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be
deemed, included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the
provisions of §
131.25, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this subchapter;
the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-wit:
   (A)   An entry upon the premises of another, or any part thereof, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the premises, or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof;
   (B)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
   (C)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   (D)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or water craft made
without the consent of the person having the right to leave any such vehicle,
aircraft or water craft after being requested to leave by the person having
such right.
(1999 Code, § 27-6-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violating the terms of §
131.10 shall be a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $500. Each day on
which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 96-108, passed 10-8-1996)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND DECENCY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.001   Disorderly conduct; elements of the offense
   
132.002   Assembling at public places and businesses
   
132.003   Excavations
   
132.004   Disturbing the peace
   
132.005   Intoxication in public
   
132.006   Begging
Public Officers
   
132.020   Disturbing police officer
   
132.021   Impersonation of officer
   
132.022   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
   
132.023   Refusing to aid an officer
Anti-Litter
   
132.035   Definitions
   
132.036   Littering prohibited
   
132.037   Prevention of scattering
   
132.038   Receptacles; upsetting or tampering
   
132.039   Sidewalks and alleys free from litter
   
132.040   Owner to maintain private premises
   
132.041   Littering from vehicles
   
132.042   Littering from aircraft
   
132.043   Litter in parks
   
132.044   Handbills
   
132.045   Posting notices prohibited
   
132.046   Construction sites
   
132.047   Loading and unloading docks
   
132.048   Parking lots
   
132.049   Clearing of litter from open private property by the village
Assemblies
   
132.060   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
132.061   Unlawful assembly
Tobacco
   
132.075   Sale of cigarettes or tobacco to minors
   
132.076   Smokeless tobacco
Drug Offenses
   
132.090   Possession of cannabis
   
132.091   Possession of drug paraphernalia
Obscenity
   
132.105   Obscenity
   
132.106   Harmful material
   
132.107   Tie-in sales of obscene publications to distributors
Open Burning
   
132.120   Definitions
   
132.121   Burning prohibited
   
132.122   Exceptions
   
132.123   Restrictions on open burning
 
   
132.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.001 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any village, town,
village or fire protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive device of any nature is concealed in such a place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive device is concealed in such a place;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed;
   (E)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it;
   (F)   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the Collection
Agency Act or as an employee of such collection agency, and while attempting to
collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which is
designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor; or
   (G)   Transmits a false report to the Department of Children and Family
Services.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-1) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/25-1
§ 132.002 ASSEMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES AND BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Drive-in business. A DRIVE-IN BUSINESS within the meaning of this
section shall be deemed to be any business where meals, sandwiches, cold
drinks, beverages, ice cream, food, drink or consumer services are served
directly to or are permitted to be consumed by patrons in or upon automobiles,
motorcycles or other vehicles parked on the premises.
   (B)   Declared public places. For the purpose of preserving public peace,
health and safety, the entire premises occupied by a drive-in business,
together with means of ingress of egress, are hereby declared to be a public
place.
      (1)   No person on the premises of a drive-in business shall race the
motor of any motor vehicle, needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop, any
motor vehicle, blow any horn of any motor vehicle, or cause to be made any loud
or unseemly noise, nuisance or disturbance whereby the quiet and good order of
the premises or the neighborhood are disturbed.
      (2)   The following acts or conduct of any persons entering a drive-in
business or premises are hereby declared to be unlawful, and any person found
guilty of any such acts shall be guilty of a violation of this section:
         (a)   Entering the premises of any drive-in business with any motor
vehicle of any description and parking such vehicle and leaving the premises
(thereby leaving such vehicle parked and unoccupied), without express consent
of the owner or operator of such business, in which event, such motor vehicle
shall be subject to a parking citation or may be impounded subject to the usual
impounding charges;
         (b)   Entering the premises in or upon a motor vehicle and using said
premises for cruising, racing as a shortcut to another street or to annoy or
endanger any person or persons or other vehicle or vehicles lawfully on said
premises;
         (c)   For three or more persons to congregate on the premises and
linger or loiter at any location on the premises of any drive-in business,
other than in the building or in a legally parked motor vehicle; and
         (d)   For any person who, while on the premises of any drive-in
business, in the presence or hearing of another, to curse or abuse such person
or use any violently abusive language under circumstances reasonably calculated
to provoke a breach of the peace.
   (C)   Posting sign. It shall be the responsibility of the business operator
to post on the premises in a conspicuous location, one or more signs bearing
the following legend in letters at least two inches or more in height and
readable:
      “CRUISING IN OR CONGREGATING AND LOITERING OUTSIDE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
UNLAWFUL. NO UNOCCUPIED MOTOR VEHICLES MAY BE LEFT ON THE PREMISES WITHOUT THE
CONSENT OF THE OWNER.”
(1999 Code, § 27-4-4) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 132.003 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, maintains, uses,
abandons, any open well, cesspool, cistern, quarry, recharging basin, catch
basin, sump, excavation for the erection of any building structure or
excavation created by the razing or removal of any building structure without
covering or surrounding such installation with protective fencing.
   (B)   This section shall not apply during the course of repair,
construction, removal or filling of any of the structures or conditions herein
described while any worker is present at the location thereof either performing
services thereon or as a watchman to guard such location.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-5) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 605/1
§ 132.004 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   No person shall disturb the good order of society, or the peace of any
private family, or of any congregation within the village by any noise or
amusement, or by vulgar or profane language, or by any disorderly or immoral
conduct.
   (B)   Any source of noise or music which disturbs the good order of society,
or the peace of any private family, or of any congregation within the village,
or disturbs the peace of a reasonable person of normal sensibilities, or is
audible a minimum of 75 feet from the source of the noise, is declared a
nuisance under this subchapter. A notice to abate may be delivered orally by a
peace officer or village official with the abatement to be undertaken
immediately.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-5) (Ord. 05/14/2002-1, passed 5-14-2002) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 132.005 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall, in the village, be found in a state of intoxication of
drunk in any street or other public place, or shall be found drunk lying or
roving about the streets, alleys or sidewalks of this village or the private
grounds of any of the inhabitants thereof, or being drunk as aforesaid, shall
disturb the peace, order and quiet of the village, or the peace and quiet of
the citizens thereof by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent
language or behavior or in any other manner.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-17) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-3
§ 132.006 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms within the village without having
obtained permission in writing from the Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-18) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-4
PUBLIC OFFICERS
§ 132.020 DISTURBING POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall, by violent conduct, disturb any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duties; nor shall any person assault, strike or fight
with any police officers in the discharge of his or her duties or permit such
conduct in or upon any house or premises in the village owned or possessed by
him or her or under his or her management and control.
   (B)   Abusive or vulgar language in the presence of an officer does not
evoke into a crime unless the language provokes a breach of the peace or
constitutes fighting words evoking some violent response.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-1) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1
§ 132.021 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   No person in the village shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the village or shall, without being duly authorized by the village,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of the
village officer, or hinder, obstruct, resist or otherwise interfere with any
village officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office, or attempt
to prevent any such officer from arresting any person, either by force or by
giving notice to such person, or attempt to rescue from such officer any person
in his or her custody, or impersonate any of the members of the police force of
this village, or maliciously or with the intention of deceiving any person,
wear the uniform of or a uniform similar to that worn by the members of the
Police Department, or use any of the signs, signals or devices adopted and used
by the Police Department.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-2) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/32-5.1
§ 132.022 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person commits an offense when that person knowingly resists or obstructs
the performance of any authorized act of one known to the person to be a peace
officer within that peace officer’s official capacity.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-2) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-1
§ 132.023 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   A person who refuses or knowingly fails, upon command, to reasonably aid a
person known by him or her to be a peace officer in the following commits a
misdemeanor:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-3) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-8
ANTI-LITTER
§ 132.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall include
helicopters and lighter-than-air powered craft and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A container of water-tight construction with
a tight-fitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents
within. Such receptacles shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all
litter generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by the United States mail service, including,
but not limited to those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together
with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox
and other structure(s) appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the
village.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-1)
§ 132.036 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the village except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-2) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.037 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-3) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.038 RECEPTACLES; UPSETTING OR TAMPERING.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-4) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.039 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-5) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.040 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-6) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.041 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the village unless such vehicle is so constructed or so
loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown
or deposited upon any public place or private premises. Nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the village, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-7) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.042 LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit any litter within
the village.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-8) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.043 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the village except in
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park of upon any
other public place or private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-9) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.044 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or upon
any public place, provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any
public place for any person to hand out of distribute without charge to the
receiver, any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Private premises. No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any
handbill in or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the occupant of such private premises; provided,
however, that in case of private premises which are not posted against the
receiving of handbills or similar material, such person, unless requested by
anyone upon such premises not to do so, may securely place any such handbill in
such a manner as to prevent such handbill from being deposited by the elements
upon any public place or other private premises, except mailboxes may not be so
used when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   (C)   Exemptions for newspapers and political literature. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only of
newspapers or political literature; except that newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
   (D)   Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill in
or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of the vehicle is willing to accept it.
   (E)   Clean-up. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
handbills to maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to said handbill distribution.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-10) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.045 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public place, except
as may be authorized or required by law. No person, except the owner or tenant
shall post any such notice on private property without the permission of the
owner or tenant.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-11) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.046 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-12) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.047 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter, and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-13) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.048 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section. Such premises shall include, but
not be limited to such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide
in an easily accessible location a minimum of one refuse container for every 50
parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight-fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as hereinabove
provided for the purposes intended and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-14) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.049 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY THE VILLAGE.
   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense(s) thereof as a lien upon such property to be collected
shall be in accordance with the state statutes. The Mayor or his or her
designated representative shall be responsible for the implementation of this
enforcement program.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-15
ASSEMBLIES
§ 132.060 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God, or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 132.061 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be illegal for persons to assemble unlawfully in the following
situations:
   (A)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
   (B)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   (C)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for the
purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to have
been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-4) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2, 720 ILCS 5/25-1
TOBACCO
§ 132.075 SALE OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   (A)   (1)   No minor under 21 years of age shall buy any cigar, cigarette,
smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms.
      (2)   No person shall sell, buy for, distribute samples of or furnish any
cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco or tobacco, in any of its forms, to any
minor under 21 years of age.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, SMOKELESS TOBACCO means any tobacco
products that are suitable for dipping or chewing.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-8) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 675/1
§ 132.076 SMOKELESS TOBACCO.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term SMOKELESS
TOBACCO means any finely cut, ground, powdered or leaf tobacco that is intended
to be placed in the oral cavity.
   (B)   Sales of smokeless tobacco products to persons under 21. No person
shall sell any smokeless tobacco product to any person under the age of 21.
   (C)   Distribution. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed to
any person under the age of 21, without charge or at a nominal cost, any
smokeless tobacco product.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 680-1 et seq.
DRUG OFFENSES
§ 132.090 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   Definitions. All terms and phrases used in this section shall have the
same meaning as ascribed to them in the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et
seq.), as amended.
   (B)   Possession. A person commits the offense of possession of cannabis by
possessing 30 grams or less of any substance containing cannabis unless
permitted or authorized to do so pursuant to the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS
550/1 et seq.).
   (C)   Cannabis. Cannabis includes marijuana, hashish and other substances
which are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa,
whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of
such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
hydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its
naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall
not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced, from such stalks,
oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature stalks (except the
resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such
plant which is incapable of germination.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-30) (Ord. 2016-14, passed 11-9-2016) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.091 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. All terms and phrases used herein shall have the same
meaning as ascribed to them in the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act (720 ILCS
600/1 et seq.), as amended.
   (B)   Violation. It shall be a violation of this section for any person to
knowingly possess an item of drug paraphernalia which is intended to be used
unlawfully in planning, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body
cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the Cannabis Control Act,
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, or the Methamphetamine Control and
Community Protection Act, or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in
violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-31) (Ord. 2016-14, passed 11-9-2016) Penalty, see §
132.999
OBSCENITY
§ 132.105 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an obscenity when, with the
knowledge of the nature or content thereof or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers or provides or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material or the absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest or absence thereof in advertising or
other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement or
possession of a mold, engraved plat or other embodiment or obscenity, specially
adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three
copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
disseminate.
(1999 Code, § 27-8-1) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1
§ 132.106 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person who, with knowledge that a person is
a child; that is, a person under 18 years of age, or who fails to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, knowingly distributes
to, or sends or causes to be sent to, or exhibits to or offers to distribute or
exhibit any harmful material to a child is guilty of a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Material is HARMFUL if, to the average person applying contemporary
standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to prurient interest;
that is, shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or excretion which goes
substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of such matters and is material, the redeeming social importance
of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of material whether with or without
consideration.
         KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents thereof.
         MATERIAL. Any writing picture, record or other representation or
embodiment.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall
be judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the
child to whom such material was offered, distributed, sent or exhibited unless
it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups, in which case, the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      (2)   In prosecutions under this section where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution or publicity,
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is, in fact, substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age, provided such
circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose, and it
shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: a document issued by
the federal government or any state, county or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator’s license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material as defined in
this section culminates in the sale or distribution of such harmful material to
a child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees or agents as where the order or
request for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone or similar
means of communication and delivery of such harmful material to the child was
by mail, freight or similar means of transport, it shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of this section that the advertisement contained
the following statement or a statement substantially similar thereto, and that
the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or she was not under
the age of 18 years and that the purchaser falsely stated that he or she was
not under the age of 18 years:
         “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of
age to purchase the matter herein advertised. Any person under eighteen (18)
years if age who falsely states that he or she is not under eighteen (18) years
of age for the purpose of obtaining the material advertised herein is guilty of
a misdemeanor.”
   (E)   Child falsifying age. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely
states, either orally or in writing that he or she is not under the age of 18
years, or who presents or offers to any person any evidence of age and identity
which is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
obtaining, viewing or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any
harmful material is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1999 Code, § 27-8-2) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1
§ 132.107 TIE-IN SALES OF OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS TO DISTRIBUTORS.
   Any person, firm or corporation, or any agent, officer or employee thereof
engaged in the business of distributing books, magazines, periodicals, comic
books or other publications to retail dealers who shall refuse to furnish to
any retail dealer such quantity of books, magazines, periodicals, comic books
or other publications as such retail dealer normally sells because the retail
dealer refuses to sell, or offer for sale, any books, magazines, periodicals,
comic books or other publications which are obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy
or indecent is guilty of an offense. Each publication sold or delivered in
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 27-8-3) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/11-22
OPEN BURNING
§ 132.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and crop residues,
but excluding landscape waste.
   GARBAGE or TRASH. Refuse of any kind produced in, on or around any type of
residential or commercial property and includes, but is not limited to, refuse
resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking and consumption
of food or food products, including plastic containers.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and
agricultural waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under § 9(b) of the
Environmental Protection Act of the state.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. The burning of wood on personal property in fireplaces,
firepits or on grills constructed for recreational purposes.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-1) (Ord. 10/10/2000-2, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 2017-8,
passed - -)
§ 132.121 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or allow open burning of agricultural waste,
landscape waste, trash or garbage.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-2) (Ord. 10/10/2000-2, passed 10-10-2000) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.122 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not prohibit the burning of substances by bona
fide firefighters for the purpose of training or fire safety demonstrations,
provided the Chief of Police receives notice at least 48 hours in advance of
the training session or demonstration and so approves. The burning of fields,
large quantities of material or buildings requires notice to the Chief of
Police at least 14 days in advance. The notice shall specify the location of
the training session or demonstration and shall specify the substances to be
burned. No automobile may be burned for any purpose within the village limits.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not prohibit controlled recreational fires.
Recreational fires may be built on personal property only in fireplaces,
firepits or on grill constructed for that purpose, and shall not be left
unattended. All recreational fires shall be extinguished before leaving the
premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-3) (Ord. 08/14/2001-1, passed 8-14-2001; Ord. 2017-8, passed
- -)
§ 132.123 RESTRICTIONS ON OPEN BURNING.
   No open burning shall occur during periods of time when the Fire Chief or
the Chief of Police have determined that atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous and dangerous.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-4) (Ord. 11/10/2009-3, passed 11-10-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
132.090 shall be subject to a mandatory fine as follows:
      (1)   Less than two grams: $100;
      (2)   Less than five grams: $150:
      (3)   Less than ten grams: $175; and
      (4)   Less than 30 grams: $200.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-30)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating §
132.091 shall be subject to a mandatory fine of not more than $200 per offense,
      (2)   Drug paraphernalia as defined herein, seized by police officers
pursuant to an arrest or issuance of a notice to appear for a violation of §
132.091, shall be forfeited to the village upon a conviction for violation of §
132.091, or upon payment of a minimum fine in settlement of said violation
pursuant to this code of ordinances, without further order of the court.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-31)
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 11-9-2016)
CHAPTER 133: WEAPONS
Section
   
133.01   Concealed weapons
   
133.02   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow
§ 133.01 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person shall carry a concealed weapon or firearm unless he or she is in
compliance with the provisions of the Illinois Firearm Concealed Carry Act (430
ILCS 66/1 et seq.)
(1999 Code, § 27-2-19) (Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow or air gun in
the village or so that the bullet, arrow, missile or projectile therefrom
enters the village without written permission from the Mayor, provided this
section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to discharge
a firearm in the performance of his or her duty; nor to any citizen to
discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or property.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Halloween curfew
   
134.02   Curfew
Parental Responsibility Regulations
   
134.15   Definitions
   
134.16   Parents and guardians responsible for acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.01 HALLOWEEN CURFEW.
   It shall be illegal for any person to engage in Halloween practice, commonly
called “Trick or Treat”, by calling at the homes or dwelling places within the
village, either masked or unmasked, set by the Police Chief and no later than
8:00 p.m.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 134.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), it shall be unlawful for a person
less than 17 years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway at the following times:
      (1)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day; and
      (2)   Between 12:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, inclusive and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REGULATIONS
§ 134.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS OF VANDALISM AND SIMILAR OFFENSES. Includes any of the following acts:
      (1)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently or knowingly damaging or
destroying or defacing any property within the village, whether such property
is owned by the state, county or governmental body or owned by any private
person, firm, partnership or association;
      (2)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, by means of fire or explosive
device, damaging, debasing, or destroying any property of another person;
      (3)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently or knowingly starting a fire
on land of another person without his or her consent;
      (4)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly depositing on land or in the
building of another person, without his or her consent, any stink bomb or any
offensive smelling compound and thereby interfering with the use and occupancy
by another of the land or building; or
      (5)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, and without authority,
entering into or obtaining control over any building, house trailer, motor
vehicle, aircraft or water craft or any part thereof of another person without
his or her consent.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. Includes a foster parent, a person appointed guardian of a
person or given custody of a minor by a circuit court of this state, but does
not include a person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor, or
appointed guardian, or given custody of a minor under the Illinois Juvenile
Court Act.
   MINOR. A person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 18 years of
age.
   PARENT. The lawful father and mother of a minor child whether by birth or
adoption.
   PROPERTY. Any real estate including improvements thereon and tangible
personal property.
(1999 Code, § 27-7-1)
§ 134.16 PARENTS AND GUARDIANS RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS.
   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and said
minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts described herein with the
knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian in violation of this
subchapter upon the occurrence of the events described in divisions (A), (B)
and (C) below:
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of a violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property;
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the village,
following said adjudication or non-judicial sanctions; and
   (C)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of notice set forth
in division (B) above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of
any ordinance, law or statute as described in division (A) above, or shall have
incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency resulting from an
admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described
in division (A) above.
(1999 Code, § 27-7-2)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
152.   FLOODPLAINS
      
153.   MOBILE HOUSING CODE
      
154.   SUBDIVISION CODE
      
155.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Permit required
   
150.02   Fees
   
150.03   Application
   
150.04   Approval of plans
   
150.05   Variations
   
150.06   Enforcement of provisions
Building Operations
   
150.20   Use of streets
   
150.21   Night operations
   
150.22   Sidewalks
   
150.23   Safeguards
Moving Buildings
   
150.35   Permit required
   
150.36   Approval; fee
   
150.37   Bond
   
150.38   Lights and warnings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or alter any building or structure in the
village, where the effect of such construction or alteration is to enlarge the
structure, or to alter any existing fire wall or construct any new building or
structure, or when §
155.333 of the zoning code applies, without having secured a permit therefor.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 04/08/2008-2, passed 4-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 FEES.
   (A)   The following fees are established for the issuance of a permit to
newly construct the following:
Accessory building                    $25
Commercial or business structure      $250
Community-scale solar energy system   $500
Community solar garden                $500
Ground-mounted solar energy system    $25
Industrial structure                  $500
Miscellaneous permit (i.e., parking
lot, deck, fence, pool, driveway and  $25
the like)
Mobile home park permit               $500 or $25 per pad whichever is greater
Mobile home unit/manufactured home/   $150
immobilized
Multi-family dwelling                 $250
Newly construct a structural addition $75
Plan development                      $500
Sign permit                           $20
Single-family dwelling                $150
 
   (B)   All fees for the above projects that are started prior to obtaining
the permit shall be tripled.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 04/08/2008-2, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2023-04, passed
2-14-2023)
§ 150.03 APPLICATION.
   Application for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall be
accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate showing the work to be
done; such plans should be verified by the signature of either the owner of the
premises or by the architect or contractor in charge of the operations. (See
Chapter 155, zoning code, for use restrictions.)
(1999 Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 150.04 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   (A)   Such applications with plans shall be referred to the Building
Inspector and/or the Zoning Administrator, who shall examine the same to
determine whether the proposed alterations or construction will comply with the
village code provisions relative thereto.
   (B)   Upon approval, one set of plans shall be returned to the applicant
with a permit, and the other set shall be retained by the Building Inspector
and filed with the Village Clerk.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued except after approval of the plans.
   (D)   Upon issue, a permit will be valid for 180 days, and construction must
commence during this period. If the proposed alterations or construction is not
completed within the 180 days, the landowner/applicant must apply for an
extension of the permit.
   (E)   If approved by the Village Board, said extension will only be issued
for an additional 180 days and must have Village Board approval.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 150.05 VARIATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to vary materially from the submitted plans and
specifications unless such variations are submitted in an amended plan to the
Building Inspector and approved by the proper authorities.
   (B)   Any variation not corrected shall be reported to the Village Board of
Trustees forthwith.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall make or cause to be made such inspections
as are necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter, and to make any tests or examinations of materials or methods to be
used for the purpose of seeing that the provisions of this subchapter are
complied with.
   (B)   Such notice may be in substantially the following form:
 
   TO: __________________________________________________________________________
   You are hereby notified that
______________________________________________________ has determined that the
building owned by you at ________________________________________ located within
the fire limits of the village has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to
the extent of 50% of its value, and that a Board of three members has been
appointed to verify this finding, which Board will hold its first meeting in the
Village Hall on the __________ day of ___________ at the hour of______ o’clock,
at which time it will determine if this finding is correct.
   If this finding is verified by the Board, you must tear down and remove the
said building.
   If the Board of three members determines that the building in question has
been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value, it shall be the duty of the owner
to tear down or remove the said building within 20 days after the finding of the
said Board; and it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the occupancy of such
building after such findings.
 
(1999 Code, § 6-1-6)
BUILDING OPERATIONS
§ 150.20 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   The use of streets for the storage of materials in the process of
construction or alteration of a building may be granted where the same will not
unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the usable width of the
roadway to less than 18 feet; no portion of the street other than that directly
abutting on the premises on which the work is being done shall be used except
with the consent of the owner or occupant of the premises abutting on such
portion.
   (B)   Any person seeking to make such use of the street shall file with the
Clerk, together with a bond with sureties to be approved by the Clerk, to
indemnify the village for any loss or damage which may be incurred by it on
account of such use and occupation.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 150.21 NIGHT OPERATIONS.
   No construction or altering operations shall be carried on after 9:00 p.m.
if the same are accompanied by loud noises.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.22 SIDEWALKS.
   No public sidewalk shall be constructed in the course of building,
construction or alteration without a special permit from the Board, and
whenever the removal of a sidewalk is required in such work, a special permit
from the Building Inspector shall be obtained.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.23 SAFEGUARDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation doing any
construction, alteration or wrecking work in the village to do the same with
proper care for the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Warning barricades and lights shall be maintained wherever necessary
for the protection of pedestrians or traffic; temporary roofs over sidewalks
shall be constructed wherever there is a danger from falling articles or
materials to pedestrians.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building from one lot to another lot, on or over
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the village without a
permit for the same from the Board of Trustees. Applications for such permits
shall be made in writing to the Clerk and shall state thereon the proposed
route and the number of days it is intended that the building shall occupy and
public way or place.
(1999 Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.36 APPROVAL; FEE.
   Upon approval of the intended route by the Board, a fee of $25, plus $50 for
each day it is intended that such building shall occupy such portion of any
public way or place shall be paid to the Clerk and a permit issued. An
additional fee of $50 for each day or fraction thereof, over and above the time
stated in the application, shall be paid for occupying such way or place.
(1999 Code, § 6-3-2)
§ 150.37 BOND.
   Every person, firm or corporation applying for a permit under this
subchapter shall submit with his or her application a bond with at least two
sureties to be approved by the Mayor conditioned on his or her compliance with
all the provisions of this subchapter, and agreeing to pay and hold the village
harmless from any claim which may be made against it by reason of the
occupation of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place by the building
or structure moved.
(1999 Code, § 6-3-3)
§ 150.38 LIGHTS AND WARNINGS.
   Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure which is being
moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the person so as to warn
vehicles and persons from entering that portion of the street which is so
blocked. The person moving any building through the streets shall keep warning
signs and lanterns at night on the building so as to guard against any person
or vehicle from colliding with it.
(1999 Code, § 6-3-4)
CHAPTER 151: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title; purpose
   
151.002   Scope
   
151.003   Liberal interpretation required
   
151.004   Effect in existing ordinances; remedies
   
151.005   Code enforcement guidelines
   
151.006   Occupancy permit required
   
151.007   Application; dwelling unit
   
151.008   Action on an application
   
151.009   Issuance of permit
   
151.010   Conditional permit
   
151.011   Rejection of application
   
151.012   Suspension of permit
   
151.013   Revocation of permit
   
151.014   Existing residential occupancies
Definitions
   
151.025   General
   
151.026   Applied meanings of words and terms
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.040   Duties and powers of Code Official
   
151.041   Right of entry
   
151.042   Notice to owner or to persons responsible
   
151.043   Form of notice
   
151.044   Service of notice
Right to Appeal
   
151.055   Petition
   
151.056   Appeals Board
   
151.057   Vote
   
151.058   Financial interest
   
151.059   Records
   
151.060   Meetings; quorum
Premises Conditions
   
151.075   Scope of regulations
   
151.076   Responsibility of owner
   
151.077   Vacant structures and land
   
151.078   Sanitation
   
151.079   Grading and drainage
   
151.080   Insect and rat control
   
151.081   Accessory structures
Exterior of Structures
   
151.095   Maintenance required
   
151.096   Structural members
   
151.097   Exterior surfaces
   
151.098   Window and door frames
Interior of Structure
   
151.110   General
Light, Ventilation and Space Requirements
   
151.125   General
   
151.126   Light
   
151.127   Ventilation
   
151.128   Dwelling unit limitations
   
151.129   Space requirements
Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements
   
151.140   General
   
151.141   Required facilities
   
151.142   Toilet rooms
   
151.143   Water system
   
151.144   Sewage system
Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
   
151.155   General
   
151.156   Heating facilities; residential buildings
   
151.157   Electrical facilities
Fire Safety Requirements
   
151.170   General
   
151.171   Means of egress
   
151.172   Accumulation and storage
   
151.173   Fire doors
   
151.174   Smoke detectors required
Responsibilities of Persons
   
151.185   General
   
151.186   Sanitary conditions
   
151.187   Extermination
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   These regulations shall be known as the “Property Maintenance Code”
hereinafter referred to as the “Property Maintenance Code” or “this code”.
   (B)   This code is to establish minimum acceptable standards, premises and
facilities in the village, which must be maintained in existing buildings,
structures, premises and facilities to protect health, safety and general
welfare.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-1)
§ 151.002 SCOPE.
   This code is to protect the public health, safety, and welfare in all
village neighborhoods, by:
   (A)   Establishing minimum exterior maintenance standards for all
nonresidential structures;
   (B)   Establishing minimum exterior maintenance standards for residential
structures;
   (C)   Establishing minimum maintenance standards for basic equipment and
facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating and sanitation of all
residential dwelling units and structures;
   (D)   Fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants of all
structures;
   (E)   The village adopts the 2018 International Property Maintenance Code;
and
   (F)   Providing for administration, enforcement and penalties.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-2)
§ 151.003 LIBERAL INTERPRETATION REQUIRED.
   This code shall be construed liberally and justly to ensure public health,
safety and welfare insofar as they are affected by the maintenance of
structures and premises.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-3)
§ 151.004 EFFECT IN EXISTING ORDINANCES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   This code establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy and use of all structures and premises and does not replace
or modify requirements otherwise established by ordinance which may be
additional or more stringent for the construction, repair, alteration or use of
structures, equipment or facilities.
   (B)   The provisions in this code shall not be construed to prevent the
enforcement of other ordinances or regulations which prescribe standards other
than are provided herein.
   (C)   The provisions in this code shall not be deemed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the village or its officers or agencies relating to the
removal or demolition of any buildings which are deemed to be dangerous, unsafe
and unsanitary.
   (D)   This code shall not effect violations of any other ordinances, codes
or regulations existing prior to the effective date hereof, and any such
violation shall be governed and shall continue to be punishable to the full
extent of the law under the provisions of those ordinances, codes or
regulations in effect at the time the violation was committed.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-4)
§ 151.005 CODE ENFORCEMENT GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Building construction code.
      (1)   Any repairs or alterations to a structure or changes of use
therein, which may be caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this
code shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the
building code now in existence.
      (2)   Any repair, alteration or replacement of structural elements of a
building, which may be required by the provisions of these guidelines, shall be
done in accordance with the applicable sections of the BOCA Building Code,
National Electrical Code, Illinois Plumbing Code or other applicable code or
ordinance of this jurisdiction.
   (B)   Zoning code. The provisions of these guidelines shall not permit the
abridgement or violation of the zoning code of this municipality, if any.
   (C)   Conflicts. Specific provisions of these guidelines indicate their
precedence over the requirements of other related codes and ordinances. Where
specific precedence is not indicated, the requirements of the most restrictive
code or ordinance prevail.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-5)
§ 151.006 OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Hereinafter, upon change of occupants, no residential property shall
be occupied or used until an occupancy permit shall have been issued by the
Building Official stating that the premises complies with the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   Multiple-family complexes which are less than ten years of age, have
50 or more units and contractual maintenance service or maintenance staff
available 24 hours a day, shall be inspected on a quarterly basis and are
exempt from the requirements of division (A) above. A selected number of vacant
units shall be inspected, upon request, once per quarter. A yearly inspection
shall be conducted of all common mechanical areas.
   (C)   The fee for the occupancy permit shall be $25 for each dwelling unit
occupied. If an inspection certificate has been issued, then an occupant may
move in on weekends and holidays when the department, responsible for issuing
occupancy permits, is closed. The occupant is required to obtain the written
permit three days after the Department is open.
   (D)   Multiple-family complexes as identified in division (B) above shall
pay $25 per dwelling unit inspected, at the time of inspection, and $100 for
the annual inspection.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-6)
§ 151.007 APPLICATION; DWELLING UNIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement on
an application for an occupancy permit for a dwelling unit as to the names,
relationships, or number of occupants who will occupy the dwelling unit.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.008 ACTION ON AN APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Code Official shall examine, or cause to be examined, all
applications for permits within a reasonable time after filing. He or she shall
cause the premises to be inspected within seven working days after filing. If
premises are not inspected within the seven working days, then the permit and
certificate of compliance shall be automatically issued without an inspection.
If the premises are not in compliance with this code and all laws and
ordinances applicable thereto, the Code Official shall provide the applicant
with a list of defects that are not in compliance. Said defects shall be listed
with as much specificity as possible. The owner or occupant of every dwelling
unit and its premises will give the Code Official free access thereto, at a
reasonable time, for the purpose of such inspection,
   (B)   There shall be no fee for the original inspection, or the first
reinspection, if necessary. A reinspection shall be made within seven working
days, from receipt of the written request, if not then the permit and
certificate of compliance shall be automatically issued without a reinspection.
If specific defects are found in the original inspection, the Code Official
shall not require additional defects to be corrected that were discovered on a
reinspection unless the new defects occurred after the original inspection.
There shall be a fee of $50 for every reinspection after the first one.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-8)
§ 151.009 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If all the fees are paid and the Code Official is satisfied that the
premises and its occupancy are in compliance with this code and all laws and
ordinances applicable thereto, the Code Official shall issue the occupancy
permit as soon as practicable.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-9)
§ 151.010 CONDITIONAL PERMIT.
   Occupancy shall be permitted on a conditional basis when in the judgment of
the Code Official practical difficulties interfere with the completing all
repairs required to bring the premises into full compliance with this code
prior to permitting occupancy. However, no conditional permit shall be issued
when there is a condition on the premises which can threaten the health or
safety of an occupant. No conditional permit shall be issued under the
provisions of this code for premises which have been newly constructed, newly
altered or on which a change in use is proposed, unless a certificate of use
and occupancy has first been issued under the provisions of the building code.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-10)
§ 151.011 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   If the application does not comply with the requirements of all pertinent
laws, the Code Officials shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-11)
§ 151.012 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued shall become invalid if the occupancy is not commenced
within six months after issuance of a permit or if the occupancy is terminated.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-12)
§ 151.013 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Code Official may revoke a permit in case of any false statement or
misrepresentation of facts in the application on which a permit was based, or
in the event a structure or part thereof is condemned pursuant to this code.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-13)
§ 151.014 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCIES.
   The provisions of §
151.006 shall not apply to any residential occupancy in existence at the time
this subchapter takes effect, unless there is a change in the occupancy of any
person after said date, or complaint filed.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-14)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.025 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purpose of this code, have the meanings indicated in this subchapter.
   (B)   Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the
future; words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   (C)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are noted in this code and
are defined in the building, plumbing and/or mechanical codes, they shall have
the same meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
   (D)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined under the provisions of
this code or under the provisions of the building, plumbing and/or mechanical
codes, they shall have ascribed to them their ordinarily accepted meanings or
such as the context herein may imply. (See Titles I and III of this code of
ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 29-2-1)
§ 151.026 APPLIED MEANINGS OF WORDS AND TERMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or method of construction
shall mean approved by the Code Official under the provisions of this code, or
approved by other authority designated by law to give approval in the matter in
question.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly below and partly
above grade, and having at least one-half its height above grade. (See CELLAR.)
      BUILDING CODE. The building code officially adopted, by the legislative
body of this jurisdiction, or such other code as may be officially designed by
the legislative body of the jurisdiction for the regulation of construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy and
maintenance of buildings and structures.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official designated by the jurisdiction to enforce
building, zoning or similar laws, or a duly authorized representative.
      CELLAR. The portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade and having at least one-half its height below grade. (See BASEMENT.)
      CENTRAL HEATING. The heating system permanently installed and adjusted so
as to provide the distribution of heat to all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
water closet compartments from a source outside of these rooms.
      CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for use or occupancy.
      CONDEMNATION. The act of judicially condemning.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential structure which are
arranged, designed, used or intended for use by one family plus not more than
four lodgers for living or sleeping purposes, and which include complete
kitchen facilities permanently installed.
      DWELLINGS.
         (a)   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant
where meals are provided for compensation to three or more persons but not more
than ten, who are not members of the keeper’s family.
         (b)   DORMITORY. Any building containing 11 or more rooming or
dormitory units. A DORMITORY also provides a public restroom, a laundry room,
foyer, storage space for out-of-season articles of the residents, public lounge
and recreational space for the use of residents.
         (c)   DORMITORY ROOM. A habitable room used or intended to be used by
four or more individuals for sleeping or study purposes, excluding bathrooms,
toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets,
storage space and stairwells.
         (d)   HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations
designed for use by transients, travelers or temporary guests, with no
provisions in such accommodations for cooking in any individual room or suite.
Facilities provided may include maid service, laundering of linen used on the
premises, telephone and secretarial or desk service.
         (e)   MULTI-FAMILY APARTMENT BUILDING. A building or portion thereof,
designed or altered for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other.
         (f)   ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling unit designed for the occupancy
by one family.
         (g)   ROOMING HOUSE. A building in which sleeping quarters (but not
meals or cooking facilities) are provided by pre-arrangement for compensation
on a weekly or longer basis for three or more persons.
         (h)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two separate dwelling
units with not more than five lodgers or boarders per family.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The official designated herein or otherwise charged
with the responsibilities of administering this code, or the officials
authorized representative.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other approved pest elimination.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption
(excluding servants), or a group of not more than three (including servants and
roomers) who need not be related by blood, marriage or adoption, living
together and maintaining a common household, but not including sororities,
fraternities or other similar organizations.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
space and similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACE.
      HOTEL. See DWELLINGS.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit possession or occupancy of a
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building or structure by a person who
shall be legal owner or not be the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a
written or unwritten lease, agreement or licensee, or pursuant to a recorded or
unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with more than three guest spaces
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open on a daily, overnight or per meal basis to transient guests.
      LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE UNIT. A habitable room used or intended to be
used by up to three individuals for sleeping purposes, excluding bathrooms,
toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets,
storage space and stairwells.
      MAINTENANCE. Conformance of a building and its facilities to the code
under which the building was constructed.
      MOTEL. A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by automobile
tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking space conveniently
located to each unit, including auto courts, motels, motor lodges or other
similar type uses.
      MULTI-FAMILY (MULTIPLE) DWELLINGS. See DWELLINGS.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age (including owner or operator)
living and sleeping in a dwelling unit or having actual possession of said
dwelling or rooming unit.
      OPENING AREA. The part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which are let or offered for occupancy.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
      PERSON. Includes a corporation or co-partnership as well as an
individual.
      PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances within the scope of the plumbing code.
      PLUMBING FIXTURE. A receptacle or device which is either permanently or
temporarily connected to the water distribution system of the premises, and
demands a supply of water therefrom; or discharges used water, liquid-borne
waste materials, or sewage either directly or indirectly to the drainage system
of the premises; or which requires both a water supply connection and a
discharge to the drainage system of the premises.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures therein.*
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Includes the following:
         (a)   The physical condition, or use of any premises regarded as a
public nuisance at common law;
         (b)   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations and unsafe fences
or structures;
         (c)   Any premises which have unsanitary sewerage or plumbing
facilities;
         (d)   Any premises designated as unsafe for human habitation or use;
         (e)   Any premises which are manifestly capable of being a fire
hazard, or are manifestly unsafe or insecure as to endanger life, limb or
property;
         (f)   Any premises from which the plumbing, heating and/or facilities
required by this code have been removed, or from which utilities have been
disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered ineffective, or the required
precautions against trespassers have not been provided;
         (g)   Any premises which are unsanitary, or which are littered with
rubbish or garbage, or which have an uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
         (h)   Any structure or building that is in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decay; faulty construction; overcrowded; open, vacant or
abandoned; damaged by fire to the extent as not to provide shelter, in danger
of collapse or failure and is dangerous to anyone on or near the premises.
      RENOVATION. A building and its facilities made to conform to present day
minimum standards of sanitation, fire prevention and safety.
      RESIDENCE BUILDING. A building in which sleeping accommodations, or
sleeping accommodations and cooking facilities, as a unit are provided; except
when classified as an institution under the building code.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke,
and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
      SANITARY. Rules and conditions of health; especially, of absence of dirt
and agents of infection or tending to promote health and healthful conditions.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having location on the ground, including a
fence or freestanding wall. A sign, billboard or other advertising medium,
detached or projecting, shall be construed to be a STRUCTURE.
      SUPPLIED. Installed, furnished or provided by the owner or operator.
      VENTILATION. The process of supplying and removing air by natural or
mechanical means to or from any space:
         (a)   Ventilation by power-driven devices; and
         (b)   Ventilation by opening to outer air through windows, skylights,
doors, louvers or stacks without wind-driven devices.
      WORKING DAYS. Those days during which the Village Hall is open for
business.
      WORKMANLIKE. Whenever the words WORKMANLIKE STATE OF MAINTENANCE AND
REPAIR are used in this code, they shall mean that such maintenance and repair
shall be made in a reasonably skillful manner.
      YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building extending
along the entire length of street, or rear or interior lot line.
   (B)   *Whenever the words “multi-family dwelling”, “residence building”,
“dwelling unit”, “lodging or rooming house”, “lodging or rooming house unit” or
“premises” are used in this code, they shall be construed as though they were
followed by the words, “or any part thereof”.
(1999 Code, § 29-2-2)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.040 DUTIES AND POWERS OF CODE OFFICIAL.
   The Code Official shall enforce all provisions of this code relative to the
maintenance of structures and premises, except as may otherwise be specifically
provided for by other regulations.
   (A)   Notices and orders. The Code Official shall issue all necessary
written notices and orders to abate illegal or unsafe conditions to ensure
compliance with the code requirements for the safety, health and general
welfare of the public.
   (B)   Coordination of enforcement.
      (1)   Inspection of premises, the issuance of written notices and orders,
and enforcement thereof shall be the responsibility of the Code Officials so
charged by the village.
      (2)   Whenever, in the opinion of a Code Official initiating an
inspection under this code, it is deemed necessary or desirable to have
inspections by any other department, the Official shall make reasonable effort
to arrange for the coordination of such inspections so as to minimize the
number of visits by Inspectors, and to confer with the other departments for
the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders before any are issued.
      (3)   A department shall not, however, delay the issuance of any
emergency order which it determines must be ordered.
(1999 Code, § 29-3-1)
§ 151.041 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   If any owner, occupant or other person in charge of a structure subject to
the provisions of this code refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with,
restricts or obstructs entry and free access to any part of the structure where
inspection authorized by this code is sought, the administrative authority may
seek, in a court of competent jurisdiction, an order that such owner, occupant
or other person in charge cease and desist with such interference.
   (A)   Access of owner or operator. Every occupant of a nonresidential
structure or premises shall give the owner or operator thereof, or agent or
employee, access to any part of such structure or its premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of making inspections as are necessary to comply with the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   Credentials. The Code Official or the Code Official’s authorized
representative shall disclose proper credentials of their respective office for
the purpose of inspecting any and all buildings and premises in the performance
of duties under this code.
(1999 Code, § 29-3-2)
§ 151.042 NOTICE TO OWNER OR TO PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Whenever the Code Official determines that there has been a violation of
this code or has reasonable grounds to believe that a violation has occurred,
notice shall be given to the owner or the person or persons responsible in the
manner described below.
(1999 Code, § 29-3-3)
§ 151.043 FORM OF NOTICE.
   Such notice prescribed in §
151.042 shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Include a description of the real estate for identification;
   (C)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why the notice is being
issued; and
   (D)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the repairs
and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
(1999 Code, § 29-3-4)
§ 151.044 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Such service shall be deemed to be properly served upon such owner if a copy
thereof is delivered to the owner personally; or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in the family of suitable age
and discretion who shall be informed of the contents thereof; or known address
with return receipt requested; or if the certified or registered letter is
returned with receipt showing that it has not been delivered, by posting a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such
notice.
(1999 Code, § 29-3-5)
RIGHT TO APPEAL
§ 151.055 PETITION.
   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with
the enforcement of any provision of this code, or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Board; provided that such person shall file, in the office of
the Board, a written petition requesting such hearing and containing a
statement of the grounds therefor within 20 days after the day the notice was
served
(1999 Code, § 29-4-1)
§ 151.056 APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   In order to protect existing structures in the jurisdiction by
vigorous enforcement of the provisions of this code, there shall be and is
hereby created a Code Appeals Board, hereafter referred to as the Board,
consisting of five members who shall be appointed by the chief executive of the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Appeals Board for this code shall be the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 29-4-2)
§ 151.057 VOTE.
   (A)   The Board shall hear all appeals relative to the enforcement of this
code, and by a concurring vote of the majority of its members, may reverse or
affirm wholly or partly, or may modify, the decision appealed from, and shall
make such order or determination as in its opinion ought to be made.
   (B)   Failure to secure such concurring votes shall be deemed a confirmation
of the decision of the Code Official.
(1999 Code, § 29-4-3)
§ 151.058 FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   A member of the Board shall not participate in any hearings or vote on any
appeal in which that member has a direct or indirect financial interest, or is
engaged as a contractor, or is engaged in the preparation of plans and
specifications, or in which that member has any personal interest.
(1999 Code, § 29-4-4)
§ 151.059 RECORDS.
   The Secretary of the Board shall keep a record of each meeting so that the
record shows clearly the basis for each decision made by the Board.
(1999 Code, § 29-4-5)
§ 151.060 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   All meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and
at such times as the Board may determine, provided that the establishment of
the meeting date, time, and location are consistent with the overall intent of
this section and are in accordance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, being 5
ILCS 120 and other applicable state laws.
(1999 Code, § 29-4-6)
PREMISES CONDITIONS
§ 151.075 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum conditions for
maintenance of exterior property, premises and structures. Premises shall
comply with the conditions herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-1)
§ 151.076 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of the premises shall maintain such structures and premises in
compliance with these requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant
or let to another for occupancy or use permits which do not comply with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-2)
§ 151.077 VACANT STRUCTURES AND LAND.
   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure, and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-3)
§ 151.078 SANITATION.
   All exterior property areas and premises shall be maintained in a clean,
safe and sanitary condition free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-4)
§ 151.079 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   All premises shall be graded and maintained so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any structure located
thereon.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-5)
§ 151.080 INSECT AND RAT CONTROL.
   (A)   An owner of a structure or property shall be responsible for the
extermination of insects, rats, vermin or other pests in all exterior areas of
the premises, except that the occupant shall be responsible for such
extermination in the exterior areas of the premises of a single-family
dwelling.
   (B)   Whenever infestation exists in the shared or public parts of the
premises of other than a single-family dwelling, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-6)
§ 151.081 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   All accessory structures, including detached garages, swimming pools,
Jacuzzis, fences and walls shall be maintained structurally sound and in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-7)
EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES
§ 151.095 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   The exterior of a structure shall be maintained structurally sound and
sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the health and safety of the occupants
and so as to protect the occupants from the environment.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-1)
§ 151.096 STRUCTURAL MEMBERS.
   All supporting structural members of all structures shall be kept
structurally sound, free of deterioration, and maintained capable of safely
bearing the dead and live loads imposed upon them.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-2)
§ 151.097 EXTERIOR SURFACES.
   Every foundation, exterior wall, roof and all other exterior surfaces shall
be maintained in a manner which will comply with the following standards.
   (A)   Foundations, exterior walls and roofs. Every foundation, exterior wall
and roof of every building shall be substantially weather-tight, and rodent
proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be kept free of
holes or breaks, and loose or rotting boards, timbers, bricks, stones and other
structural material; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the
load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (B)   Exterior surfaces. All exterior surfaces of any building shall be
reasonably capable of withstanding the effects of the elements and decay. Any
exterior surface which is deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating or which has
lost its capability to reasonably withstand the effects of the elements shall
be repaired.
   (C)   Windows and exterior doors. Every window, storm window, exterior door,
exterior storm door, basement or cellar door and hatchway shall be
substantially weather-tight, wind-tight, water-tight and rodent proof; shall be
equipped with all appropriate hardware, shall be capable of being easily opened
unless designed to be fixed.
   (D)   Decorative features. All cornices, entablatures, belt courses,
corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings, and similar decorative features shall
be maintained in good repair and proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (E)   Protective railings. Any handrails, guardrails or other types of
protective railings required to be constructed or installed under any provision
of the municipal code of the village or which have otherwise been constructed
and installed shall be maintained in good repair.
   (F)   Chimneys. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks and similar
appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe, sound and in good repair.
   (G)   Stairs and porches. Every stair, porch, balcony, ramp and all
appurtenances attached thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and
capable of supporting the loads to which it is subjected and shall be kept in
sound conditions and in good repair.
   (H)   Roof drainage. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rain water
from causing dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the
building. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a
nuisance to owners or occupants of adjacent premises, or that creates a public
nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-3)
§ 151.098 WINDOW AND DOOR FRAMES.
   Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in such
relation to the adjacent wall construction so as to exclude rain as completely
as possible and to substantially exclude wind from entering the dwelling or
structure.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-4)
INTERIOR OF STRUCTURE
§ 151.110 GENERAL.
   The interior of a structure and its equipment shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition so as not to pose a
threat to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or visitors, and to
protect the occupants from the environment.
   (A)   Lead-based paint. Lead-based paint with a lead content of more than
0.5% shall not be applied to any interior or exterior surface of a dwellings
dwelling unit or child care facility, including fences and outbuildings at
these locations. Existing interior and exterior painted surfaces of dwelling
units and child care facilities that contain an excess of 0.5% lead shall be
removed or covered with paneling or other suitable covering approved by the
Code Official.
   (B)   Sanitation. The interior of every structure shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition free from any accumulation of rubbish, refuse or
garbage. Rubbish, garbage and other refuse shall be properly, kept inside
temporary storage facilities until properly disposed.
   (C)   Storage. Garbage or rubbish shall not be allowed to accumulate or be
stored in public halls or stairways.
   (D)   Insect and rat harborage.
      (1)   All structures shall be kept free from insect and rat infestation,
and where insects or rats are found, they shall be promptly exterminated by
approved processes which will not be injurious to human health.
      (2)   After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-1)
LIGHT, VENTILATION AND SPACE REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.125 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for the light, ventilation and space for the occupancy
of a structure. All light, ventilation and space conditions shall comply with
the requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such light and ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner- occupant or let to another
for occupancy or use any premises which do not comply with the following
requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Alternative devices. In place of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, alternative arrangement of windows, louvers or
other methods and devices that will provide the equivalent minimum performance
requirements shall be permitted when complying with the building code.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-1)
§ 151.126 LIGHT.
   All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient light so as not to endanger
health and safety.
   (A)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one window
of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum
total window area, measured between stops, for every habitable space shall be
8% of the floor area of such room except in kitchens when artificial light is
provided in accordance with the provisions of the building code. In one-family
dwellings units, rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors may be
ventilated through an adjoining room. In one-family dwelling units, the
unobstructed opening to the adjoining room shall be at least 14 square feet.
   (B)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in every
building, other than one- and two-family dwellings, shall be adequately lighted
at all times with an illumination of at least a 60 watt standard incandescent
light bulb or equivalent.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-2)
§ 151.127 VENTILATION.
   (A)   All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient natural or mechanical
ventilation so as not to endanger health and safety. Where mechanical
ventilation is provided in lieu of the natural ventilation, such mechanical
ventilating systems shall be maintained in operation during the occupancy of
any structure or portion thereof.
   (B)   When part of the air provided by a mechanical ventilation system is
recirculated, the portion or volume of air recirculated shall not be
recirculated to a different residential space or occupancy of dissimilar use
from which it is withdrawn.
      (1)   Toilet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall
comply with the light and ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as
required by §§
151.126 except that a window shall not be required in bathrooms or water closet
compartments equipped with an approved mechanical ventilation system. One-
family dwelling units built prior to 1978 are not required to comply with the
regulation.
      (2)   Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy (see zoning code), cooking shall not be permitted in any sleeping
room or dormitory unit, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be
permitted to be present in a sleeping room or dormitory.
      (3)   Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer venting systems shall be
independent of all other systems and shall be vented in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-3)
§ 151.128 DWELLING UNIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Separation of units. Dwelling units shall be separate and apart from
each other. Sleeping rooms shall not be used as the only means of access to
other sleeping rooms or habitable spaces.
   (B)   Privacy. Hotel units, lodging units and dormitory units shall be
designed to provide privacy, and be separate from other adjoining spaces.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-4)
§ 151.129 SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes
shall have adequate floor space.
   (B)   Water closet accessibility. In all dwelling units, other than a one-
family dwelling, every room used as a bedroom shall have access to at least one
water closet without passing through another room used as a bedroom.
   (C)   Prohibited use. Kitchens, nonhabitable spaces and public spaces shall
not be used for sleeping purposes.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-5)
PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.140 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
plumbing facilities and fixtures to be provided. All plumbing facilities and
fixtures shall comply with the requirements herein described insofar as they
are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such plumbing facilities and fixtures in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy or
use any structure or portion thereof or premises which does not comply with the
following requirements of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-1)
§ 151.141 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall include its own plumbing
facilities which are in proper operating condition, can be used in privacy, and
are adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of human waste.
   (B)   Water closet and lavatory. Every dwelling unit shall contain within
its walls, a room separate from habitable spaces, which affords privacy and a
water closet supplied with cold running water. A lavatory shall be placed in
the same room as the water closet or located in another room, in close
proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which said water closet
is located. The lavatory shall be supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (C)   Bathtub or shower. Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which
affords privacy to a person in said room and which is equipped with a bathtub
or shower supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (D)   Kitchen sink. Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink apart
from the lavatory required and such sink shall be supplied with hot and cold
running water.
   (E)   Rooming houses. At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub
or shower properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good
working condition shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house,
wherever said facilities are shared. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times.
   (F)   Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower accessible
from a public hallway shall be provided on each floor for each ten occupants.
Each lavatory, bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at
all times.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-2)
§ 151.142 TOILET ROOMS.
   (A)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall be designed and arranged to
provide privacy.
   (B)   Direct access. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall not be used as a
passageway to a hall or other space, or to the exterior.
   (C)   Same story. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, lodging
houses or dormitory units, unless located within such respective units, or
directly connected thereto, shall be provided on the same story with such
units, and be accessible only from a common hall or passageway.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-3)
§ 151.143 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Every sink lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain, water
closet or other faculty shall be properly connected to either a public water
system or to an approved private water system.
      (2)   All sinks, lavatories, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with
hot and cold running water.
   (B)   Water heating facilities. Where hot water is provided, water heating
facilities shall be installed in an approved manner, properly maintained, and
properly connected with hot water lines to the fixtures required to be supplied
with the hot water.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-4)
§ 151.144 SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other facility shall be properly connected to either a public
sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Every plumbing stack, waste and sewer line shall be so installed
and maintained as to function properly and shall be kept free from
obstructions, leaks and defects to prevent structural deterioration or health
hazards.
      (2)   All repairs and installations shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of the building and plumbing code.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-5)
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.155 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided. All
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment shall comply with the
requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with
these requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or let to
another for occupancy or use any premises which does not comply with the
following requirements of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 29-10-1)
§ 151.156 HEATING FACILITIES; RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   Every owner of any structure who rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling
units or guest rooms on terms, either express or implied, to furnish heat to
the occupants thereof, shall supply sufficient heat during the period from
October 1 to May 15 to maintain a room temperature of not less than 65°F
(18°C), in all habitable spaces, bathrooms and toilet rooms during the hours
between 6:30 a.m. and 10:30 p.m. of each day and maintain a temperature of not
less than 60°F (16°C) during other hours. The temperature shall be measured at
a point three feet (914 millimeters) above the floor and three feet (914
millimeters) from the exterior walls.
(1999 Code, § 29-10-2)
§ 151.157 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. Every building or part thereof used for human
occupancy shall be adequately and safely provided with an electrical system in
compliance with the requirements of this section. The provisions of this
section shall be considered absolute minimum requirements.
   (B)   Lighting fixtures. Every public hall, interior stairway, water closet
compartment, bathroom and laundry room shall contain at least one electrical
lighting fixture.
   (C)   Service. When the electrical system requires modification to correct
inadequate service, then service shall be corrected to a minimum of 100 ampere,
three-wire service.
   (D)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
installed and maintained in a safe manner in accordance with all applicable
laws. All electrical equipment shall be of an approved type.
(1999 Code, § 29-10-3)
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.170 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum fire
safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
      (2)   All structures shall be constructed and maintained to prevent and
avoid fire hazards, and in a manner conducive to fire safety. All fire safety
facilities and equipment shall comply with the requirements herein prescribed
insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements
and the fire prevention code. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or
let to another for occupancy or use any premises which does not comply with the
following requirements of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 29-11-1)
§ 151.171 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed means of egress shall be
provided from the interior of a structure to the exterior at a street, or to a
yard, court, or passageway leading to a public open area at grade.
   (B)   Direct exit. Every dwelling unit shall have access directly to the
outside or to an exit access corridor that leads directly to the outside.
   (C)   Locked doors. All doors located in the required means of egress shall
be readily operable from the inner side without the use of keys. Exits from
multiple-family dwelling units, hotel units, lodging houses and dormitory units
shall not lead through other such units, or through toilet room or rooms.
“Dead-bolt” locks are allowable provided the key is in place at all times and
the structure is occupied.
   (D)   Fire escapes. All required fire escapes shall be maintained in working
condition and structurally sound.
   (E)   Dual egress. Every residential building exceeding one story in height
above grade, not including basements, shall be provided with not less than two
approved independent exits from each floor above the first floor, fully
accessible to each occupant on the floor or provide safety ladders for each
bedroom above the first floor.
(1999 Code, § 29-11-2)
§ 151.172 ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE.
   Waste, refuse or other materials shall not be allowed to accumulate in
stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire escapes or other means of egress.
(1999 Code, § 29-11-3)
§ 151.173 FIRE DOORS.
   All required fire resistance rated doors or smoke barriers shall be
maintained in good working order, including all hardware necessary for the
proper operation thereof. The use of door stops, wedges and other unapproved
hold-open devices is prohibited.
(1999 Code, § 29-11-4)
§ 151.174 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Smoke detectors shall be provided outside of each sleeping area in the
immediate vicinity of the bedrooms and on each additional story of the
dwelling, including basements and cellars but not including crawl spaces and
uninhabitable attics.
   (B)   In dwellings or dwelling units with split levels, a smoke detector
need be installed only on the upper level, provided the lower level is less
than one full story below the upper level, except that if there is a door
between levels then a detector is required on each level.
   (C)   In multiple dwelling units, a smoke detector shall be installed in all
common hallways or rooms.
   (D)   All detectors shall be connected to a sounding device or other
detectors to provide when actuated an alarm which will be audible in all
sleeping areas.
   (E)   All detectors shall be approved and listed and shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
(1999 Code, § 29-11-5)
RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSONS
§ 151.185 GENERAL.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the responsibilities of persons
for the maintenance of structures, and the equipment and premises thereof. The
owner has the ultimate legal responsibility to comply with this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 29-12-1)
§ 151.186 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof shall keep
that part of the structure or premises thereof which that occupant occupies,
controls, or uses in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a dwelling
containing two or more dwelling units shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof
shall dispose of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof
shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in
garbage disposal facilities, or if such facilities are not available, by
placing it in approved garbage storage containers.
(1999 Code, § 29-12-2)
§ 151.187 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (B)   Multiple occupancy. Every owner, agent or operator of two or more
dwelling units or multiple occupancies, or nonresidential structures and
rooming houses, shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rats
or others in the public or shared areas of the structure and premises.
(1999 Code, § 29-12-3)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAINS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Base flood elevation
   
152.04   Duties of the Building Official
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.07   Protecting buildings
   
152.08   Subdivision and other development requirements
   
152.09   Variances
   
152.10   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.11   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
village by the 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-
2 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To recognize the environmental sensitivity of floodplains and to
encourage their protection from inappropriate growth and development.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-1) (Ord. 8/8/2000-1, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Mayor or some person appointed by him or her to execute
this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined below and in §
152.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING.
      (1)   A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes and prefabricated buildings. The
term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on
a site for more than 180 days.
      (2)   Note: the NFIP requires that references be made to “manufactured
homes” rather than “mobile homes”.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building, or any
addition to a building, exceeding 70 square feet in floor area;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   FEMA.
      (1)   Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   Note: FEMA regulations can be found at 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through
79 effective October 1, 1986 (revised October 1, 1990).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). They are synonymous. Those
lands within the jurisdiction of the village that are subject to inundation by
the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the village are generally identified as such
on the flood insurance rate map of the village prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated August 17, 1979. The FLOODPLAINS of those
parts of unincorporated Shelby County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the village are
generally identified as such on the flood hazard boundary map prepared for
Shelby County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 24,
1978. The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated Christian County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be
annexed into the village are generally identified as such on the flood hazard
boundary map prepared for Christian County by the FEMA and dated April 7, 1978.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE.
      (1)   The elevation of the base flood plus one foot of freeboard at any
given location in the floodplain.
      (2)   NFIP regulations require protection to or above the base flood
elevation. One foot of freeboard is recommended by IDOT/DWR. A municipality may
use higher freeboard requirements if it desires.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for each of the floodplains of the village shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
   IDOT/DWR. Illinois Department of Transportation/Division of Water Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-2) (Ord. 8/8/2000-1, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 152.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood elevation data are listed below.
   (B)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party may
finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace the existing data with
better data and submit it to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for
approval. (See NFIP requirement: 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b).).
      (1)   The base flood elevation for each of the floodplains delineated as
an “A Zone” on the flood insurance rate map of the village shall be according
to the best data available from federal, state or other sources. Should no
other data exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine base flood
elevations.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Shelby and Christian Counties that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed to determine base flood insurance.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-3) (Ord. 8/8/2000-1, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 152.04 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.05;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06;
      (3)   (a)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all
buildings subject to §
152.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate (see NFIP requirements: 44
C.F.R. §§ 60.3(b)(5)(iii) and 59.22(a)(9)(iii));
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.08;
      (5)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.09 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (6)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
152.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (7)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (8)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (9)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
and
      (10)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-4) (Ord. 8/8/2000-1, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 152.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body, not exempted by
state law, shall commence any development in the floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Administrator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Application documents. The application for development permit shall
be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
         (d)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basements) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.07.
      (2)   Elevation comparisons.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for development permit, the
Zoning Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the date of the site’s
first flood insurance rate map identification is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The documentation of the existing ground elevation at the
development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to
the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map identification.
   (C)   Note: although survey data may show the development site to be
entirely above the base flood elevation, a letter of map amendment (LOMA) will
still be required to remove the site from the mapped floodplain for insurance
requirements.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-5) (Ord. 8/8/2000-1, passed 8-8-2000) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within the village’s floodplains, the following standards shall apply (NFIP
requirements: 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(4)(l), 60.3(c)(10) and 60.3(d)(3)).
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
      (2)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No., 4;
      (3)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
      (4)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDOT/
DWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
      (5)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (6)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (7)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
      (8)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (9)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 11; and
      (10)   Any development determined by IDOT/DWR to be located entirely in a
flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDOT/DWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDOT/DWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary to approve
a revision of the regulatory map and base flood elevation.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-6) (Ord. 8/8/2000-1, passed 8-8-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 615 ILCS 5/5 through 29A
§ 152.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Requirements. It addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be protected from
flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building;
      (3)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage); and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
   (B)   Alternative methods. Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet
the building protection requirements by one of the following methods (see NFIP
requirements: 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(2)):
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following (see:
NFIP requirements: 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3) and 60.3(c)(5)):
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all fully enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by having a minimum of two
permanent openings no more than one foot above grade and providing a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris;
         (e)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (f)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (g)   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used for
storage of items or materials.
   (C)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers. Manufactured homes and travel
trailers to be installed on site for more than 180 days shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code 870.
   (D)   Nonresidential buildings. Nonresidential buildings may be structurally
floodproofed (in lieu of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water- tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and
impact from debris and ice; and
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (E)   Levees, berms and floodwalls. Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar
works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose of this section. (See
NFIP requirements: 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(4).)
(1999 Code, § 14-1-7) (Ord. 8/8/2000-1, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 152.08 SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Board shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   Data required. New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation
agreements, planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection
standards of §§
152.06 and
152.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when available; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205.
   (B)   Health standards. Public health standards must be met for all
floodplain development. In addition to the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building
constructed according to the requirements of §
152.07.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other above ground openings
located below the flood protection elevation are water-tight.
   (C)   Other activities. All other activities defined as development shall be
designed so as not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
   (D)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   This section sets minimum subdivision design review and recording
standards when subdivisions are located within a floodplain. It also provides
guidance for other activities defined as “development” which may occur in a
floodplain (see NFIP requirement: 44 C.F.R. § 60.2(c)).
      (2)   NFIP requirement: 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(3) only applies to
subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots.
      (3)   All new plats recorded must show the location of any floodplains
and must be signed, sealed and certified by a professional land surveyor as per
the requirements of Public Act 85-267.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-8) (Ord. 8/8/2000-1, passed 8-8-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 765 ILCS 205/2
§ 152.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board for
a variance. The Zoning Board shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board.
   (B)   The Village Board may attach such conditions to granting of a variance
as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
      (1)   Requirements for variance. No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that:
         (a)   The development activity cannot be located outside the
floodplain;
         (b)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
         (c)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
         (d)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety,
or creation of a nuisance;
         (e) There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
         (f)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
         (g)   All other required local, state and federal permits have been
obtained. (65 ILCS 5/11-13-4 and 5/11-13-5 establishes specific municipal
zoning variance criteria.)
      (2)   Notification of applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall notify an
applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of the building
protection standards of §
152.07 would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
         (a)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
for $100 of insurance coverage;
         (b)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         (c)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability. (The standard flood insurance policy permits an insurance adjuster
to not pay for damage that was caused by something the owner did which
increased the hazard to the property. Section 1316 of the National Flood
Insurance Act authorizes local officials to request denial of flood insurance
for buildings in violation of local floodplain codes.)
      (3)   Variances to the building protection requirements. Variances to the
building protection requirements of §
152.07 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or alteration of
a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or the
Illinois Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more
permissive than the requirements of division (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(e).
   (C)   Communities in the NFIP are required to maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report them
to FEMA. FEMA may review variances and suspend a community from the NFIP if the
review “indicates a pattern inconsistent with the objectives of sound
floodplain management”.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-9) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-10)
§ 152.11 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Village
Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
However, this chapter does not repeal the original ordinance adopted to achieve
eligibility in the Program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair
any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and
other ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. See: NFIP
requirement: 44 C.F.R. § 60.2(B).
(1999 Code, § 14-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1; 5/11-12-12; 5/11-30-2; 5/11-30-
8 and 5/11-31-2
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Zoning
Administrator may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exist.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
      (1)   If such owner fails, after ten days’ notice, to correct the
violation:
         (a) The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750; and
         (c) A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   The Village Attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-11)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Definitions
   
153.002   State requirements adopted by reference
   
153.003   Illinois Department of Public Health regulations
   
153.004   National safety standards
   
153.005   Skirting
   
153.006   Fire extinguishers
   
153.007   Inspection
   
153.008   Off-street parking
   
153.009   Owner occupancy and replacement of mobile housing units
Immobilized Mobile Homes
   
153.020   Immobilized mobile homes
   
153.021   Permit; fee
   
153.022   Lot size
   
153.023   Dependent mobile homes
   
153.024   Concrete pads
   
153.025   Limit of units
Mobile Home Parks
   
153.040   Compliance with statutes; applicability of subchapter
   
153.041   Planning
   
153.042   Local government requirements
   
153.043   Permits
   
153.044   Inspection of mobile home parks
   
153.045   Violation proceedings
   
153.046   Permit required
Design and Construction Requirements
   
153.060   Plan document
   
153.061   Application
   
153.062   Location
   
153.063   Roadways and parking
General Regulations
   
153.075   Lot size
   
153.076   Miscellaneous regulations
Fees
   
153.090   License fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A mobile home served by individual utilities, resting on a
permanent perimeter foundation which extends below the established frost depth
with the wheels, tongue and hitch removed and the home secured in compliance
with the Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
      (2)   The foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line so
as to attach and become a part of the real estate. Materials such as concrete,
mortared concrete block, or mortared brick extending into the ground below the
frost line shall satisfy the requirements for a permanent foundation.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the village allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this code and
the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent location at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME shall only include manufactured homes constructed
after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the federal National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. Provided that any such
structure resting on a permanent foundation with wheels, tongue and hitch
permanently removed shall not be construed as a MOBILE HOME, but shall be an
IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME. A MOBILE HOME should not be confused with a camping
trailer or recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. Consists of two mobile units joined at the side
into a single home, but kept on their separate chassis for repeated
transportation to a site.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home which has self-contained toilet and
bath or shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME MODULE. A factory-fabricated building unit transported to a
building site, mounted on a permanent foundation supporting the outside
perimeter walls, and is designed for residential use.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. That part of an individual mobile home space or lot beneath
the mobile home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for two or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a mobile home park if they are
maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a
motorized recreational vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a mobile
home park.
   MOBILE HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale and
repair of new or used mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOUSING UNIT. Includes all forms of housing units listed in this
section and as regulated in this code.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   PERMIT. A certificate issued by the village, permitting the construction,
alteration or reduction in number of spaces of a mobile home park under the
provisions in this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the state or any political subdivision or department thereof or
any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this village for an indefinite period of time.
   SITE. The lot on which the mobile home is located for permanent habitation.
   SPACE. Synonymous with MOBILE HOME SPACE.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this village for a temporary period of time with an expectation
of resumption.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 210 ILCS 115/2.1, 210 ILCS 115/2.2, 210 ILCS 115/
2.3, 210 ILCS 115/2.4, 210 ILCS 115/2.5, 210 ILCS 115/2.7, 20 ILCS 115/2.10
§ 153.002 STATE REQUIREMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Mobile Home Park Act, being 215 ILCS 115 and the Mobile Home Tiedown
Act, being 215 ILCS 120, as passed, approved and amended by the Illinois
General Assembly are hereby adopted by the village as they pertain to mobile
homes and immobilized mobile homes shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the village.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-2) (Ord. 03/14/2006-1, passed 3-14-2006)
§ 153.003 ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   The Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks, as approved by the Illinois
Department of Public Health are hereby adopted by the village, the applicable
provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile homes shall
be controlling within the village.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-3)
§ 153.004 NATIONAL SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   No mobile home, immobilized mobile home or manufactured home shall be
located in the village unless the unit has the national manufactured housing
construction and safety standards metal seal affixed thereto.
   (B)   Existing units are exempt until they are replaced.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-4)
§ 153.005 SKIRTING.
   Skirting shall be used to conceal all underpinning, plumbing and support
piers whether on a permanent foundation or otherwise. All skirting shall be
installed on all mobile housing units within 60 days of the placement of the
unit.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-5) (Ord. 03/14/2006-1, passed 3-14-2006)
§ 153.006 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   All mobile housing units located in the village shall be equipped with a
fire extinguishing apparatus capable of extinguishing all types of fires. Such
extinguishers shall be of sufficient size so that they will reasonably protect
the mobile housing units. All fire extinguishers shall be approved by the Fire
Chief or his or her designated representative prior to installation.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 425 ILCS 60/1-60/4
§ 153.007 INSPECTION.
   Each mobile housing unit located in the village shall be subject to
reasonable inspection by an official or officials designated by the Village
Board.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-7)
§ 153.008 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Every owner of a mobile housing unit shall provide for a dustless, off-
street parking area of 400 square feet.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-8)
§ 153.009 OWNER OCCUPANCY AND REPLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOUSING UNITS.
   (A)   All mobile housing units shall be used and occupied by the owner as a
primary residence. If the unit is not located in a licensed mobile home park,
then the lot must be owned by the owner-occupant of the mobile housing unit. If
the lot is vacant when the lot is sold to a new owner, the new owner will not
be allowed to place a mobile housing unit on the property.
   (B)   Any mobile housing unit presently within the village, no matter how
zoned, except for the designated mobile home park, may be replaced with a
mobile housing unit only so long as the replacement unit does not cause any
nonconformity that was not already attendant to the mobile housing unit that
was replaced. All mobile housing units must conform to the setback and regular
zoning guidelines.
   (C)   Once a mobile housing unit has been removed from a lot and a stick
frame structure built on it resulting in a primary residence, including a
modular home, a mobile housing unit may never be placed on the property again.
(1999 Code, § 23-1-9) (Ord. 05/08/2001-4, passed 5-8-2001; Ord. 03/14/2006-1,
passed 3-14-2006; Ord. 2016-1, passed 1-12-2016)
IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOMES
§ 153.020 IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOMES.
   All immobilized mobile homes located in the village shall be classified as
real estate; therefore, it is mandatory for all persons owning an existing
mobile home outside a mobile home park to remove or cause to have removed the
wheels or any other transportation device from the mobile home. The owner shall
permanently fix it to the ground in a manner that conforms to the definition of
an immobilized mobile home in this chapter. All existing mobile homes, when
replaced, shall comply with the immobilization provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 23-2-1) (Ord. 03/14/2006-1, passed 3-14-2006)
§ 153.021 PERMIT; FEE.
   All persons seeking to locate or replace a mobile home or an immobilized
mobile home outside a mobile home park shall obtain a building permit from the
Village Clerk. No utility services shall be connected to the unit until the
village has issued the appropriate permits. The fee to locate or relocate a
mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall be $25.
(1999 Code, § 23-2-2)
§ 153.022 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for the location of an immobilized mobile home unit
shall be 6,000 square feet; provided, however, the lot shall be at least 60
feet wide and 100 feet deep. All immobilized mobile homes shall be located in
the village, according to the requirements and restrictions of this chapter and
the zoning code (
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
(1999 Code, § 23-2-3) (Ord. 03/14/2006-1, passed 3-14-2006)
§ 153.023 DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES.
   No dependent mobile home, as defined in §
153.001, shall be permitted in the village unless in a licensed travel-trailer
park. At no time shall anyone use a dependent mobile home as a permanent
residence or dwelling.
(1999 Code, § 23-2-4)
§ 153.024 CONCRETE PADS.
   All immobilized mobile homes shall be placed on either a reinforced concrete
pad at least 14 feet wide by 60 feet in length, two reinforced concrete runners
four feet wide and 60 feet in length, or on concrete piers approved by the
Village Board. The concrete pads shall consist of four inches of reinforced
concrete or six inches of concrete. A concrete footing is optional. All piers
and footings for immobilized mobile homes shall comply with this chapter.
Expandable units shall be provided with approved piers or their equivalent at
each corner of the units.
(1999 Code, § 23-2-5)
§ 153.025 LIMIT OF UNITS.
   There shall be only one immobilized mobile home or mobile home per lot in
the village.
(1999 Code, § 23-2-6)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 153.040 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES; APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Every mobile home park hereafter established in the village shall, at
a minimum, conform to the requirements of:
      (1)   “An Act to Provide for, License, and Regulate Mobile Homes and
Mobile Home Parks”. (210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.);
      (2)   Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks, Illinois Department of
Public Health, Consumer Protection Division, as now or hereafter amended;
      (3)   This chapter; and
      (4)   The zoning code (Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   (B)   In case of conflict between any provisions of the above, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-1)
§ 153.041 PLANNING.
   (A)   Any person seeking to establish, operate, alter or expand a mobile
home park shall obtain a permit to construct or a license to operate a mobile
home park.
   (B)   CONSTRUCT OR OPERATE A MOBILE HOME PARK, as used in this chapter shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to, supplying or maintaining common
water, sewer or other utility supplies or services, or the collection of rents
directly or indirectly from two or more independent mobile homes. (All plans
shall be submitted to the Village Board or Planning and Zoning Commission for
approval prior to the granting of a permit.)
(1999 Code, § 23-3-2)
§ 153.042 LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit does not relieve the applicant from complying with this chapter or
other ordinances applicable thereto.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-3)
§ 153.043 PERMITS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review each application and plan
documents submitted. When the application and plan documents are found to be in
compliance with the Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks, as promulgated
by the Illinois Department of Public Health, the Village Board may issue the
proper permit to construct or alter a mobile home park to the applicant.
Permits shall be valid for one year from date of issue.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-4)
§ 153.044 INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Upon completion of the proposed construction of a mobile home park or the
proposed alteration of a mobile home park, the applicant shall notify the
Village Clerk in order that an inspection of the complete facilities can be
made.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-5)
§ 153.045 VIOLATION PROCEEDINGS.
   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension
by the Mayor. However, the Mayor or his or her representative shall first serve
or caused to be served upon the licensee a written notice in which shall be
specified the way or ways in which such licensee has failed to comply with the
statutes, or any rules or regulations promulgated by the village pertaining
thereto. The notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate such
nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable condition, specified in such notice
within five days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the
Village Board. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of
the notice within the time specified or such extended period of time, the Mayor
or his or her representative may revoke or suspend such license.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-6)
§ 153.046 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Each mobile home that locates on a lot in a mobile home park shall secure an
initial building (zoning) permit from the village. All future locations on the
same lot shall be exempt from the fee.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-7)
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.060 PLAN DOCUMENT.
   In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original license to operate a
mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a written
application and plan documents and such plan documents shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the state, with
registration seal affixed. Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the
application filed with the Village Clerk to obtain a permit to construct or
alter a mobile home park or an original license to operate a mobile home park,
not previously licensed by the Department. These plans shall include, but not
be limited to, the design and construction criteria set forth herein.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-10)
§ 153.061 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a written
application and plan documents for the proposed construction or alteration of a
mobile home park.
   (B)   The application shall be completed by the applicant and the engineer
or architect and shall include:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation must be filed with the application;
      (2)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the mobile home park is to be located;
      (3)   The plot plans of the mobile home park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities;
      (4)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached; and
      (5)   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $100
for a permit to construct, or an application fee of $25 for a permit to alter
to increase the size of the park.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-11)
§ 153.062 LOCATION.
   (A)   Sites selected for mobile home development shall be well-drained and
free from topographical or geological hindrances and from other conditions
unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The mobile home development
shall not be located near swamps, marshes or other breeding places of insects,
rats and mice. When a good, natural drainage is not available, storm drainage
shall be provided and such drainage shall not endanger any water supply or
surface watercourse.
   (B)   The Village Board may authorize a site survey to ascertain that the
proposed location complied with the above requirements.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-12)
§ 153.063 ROADWAYS AND PARKING.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every park shall be constructed in
compliance with the subdivision code (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances).
   (B)   (1)   All streets in parks constructed shall have a minimum right-of-
way of 50 feet and a minimum road width of 32 feet for the purpose of this
chapter, and shall be considered private streets to be maintained by the park
owner or operator.
      (2)   If a mobile home park has more than 50 units, a wider street may be
required by the corporate authorities.
   (C)   Sidewalks and walkways shall be constructed abutting a street in a
mobile home park and shall be a minimum of four feet in width; provided,
however, there shall be no minimum width requirement for sidewalks for each
individual lot. No portion of a mobile home shall block, in any way, the
pedestrian traffic on the walkways.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.075 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for a mobile home pad shall be 8,000 square feet, with
a minimum frontage of 50 feet.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-17)
§ 153.076 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No mobile home unit parked in a mobile home park shall be immobilized.
   (B)   Not more than one mobile home unit shall be parked in one space.
   (C)   No travel-trailer shall be permitted in any mobile home park, unless a
special area has been approved for that purpose by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
FEES
§ 153.090 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee per mobile home park shall be $50, and shall be due
and payable on or before May 1 of each year. The Village Clerk shall notify the
owner or operator of the annual fee at least 30 days prior to May 1.
(1999 Code, § 23-3-21)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Instances when plats will not be required
   
154.005   Standards and requirements
   
154.006   Interpretation
   
154.007   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.008   Review and expiration
Definitions
   
154.020   Interpretation of terms
   
154.021   Selected definitions
Plat and Plans; Preliminary Plats
   
154.035   General procedure
   
154.036   Filing procedure
   
154.037   Information required
   
154.038   Planning and Zoning Commission action
   
154.039   Review by Village Board; time constraints
   
154.040   Rights and privileges of subdivider
Improvement Plans
   
154.055   Submission of plans
   
154.056   Information required
   
154.057   Inspections required
   
154.058   Filing “as-built” records
Assurance for Completion of Required Improvements
   
154.070   Approval of final plat; improvements
   
154.071   Forms of assurance
   
154.072   Amount of bond or deposit
   
154.073   Eligible sureties
   
154.074   Terms of assurance; extension
   
154.075   Release of bond/escrow deposit
   
154.076   Failure to complete improvements
Final Plats
   
154.090   Village Board approval
   
154.091   Filing; time limits
   
154.092   Information required
   
154.093   Certificates required
   
154.094   Administrative review; advisory report
   
154.095   Action by Village Board
   
154.096   Changes in approved final plats
Maintenance of Improvements
   
154.110   Subdivider responsibilities
   
154.111   Maintenance bond
Vacation of Plats
   
154.125   Vacation of plats
Administrative Procedures
   
154.140   Enforcement Officer; duties
   
154.141   Subdivision variances
   
154.142   Review by Planning and Zoning Commission
   
154.143   Action by Village Board; variance standards
   
154.144   Amendments
   
154.145   Schedule of fees
   
154.146   Fees; time of payment
Design and Improvements Standards Generally
   
154.160   Applicability of subchapter
   
154.161   Suitability for development generally
Lot Requirements
   
154.175   Conformity with zoning
   
154.176   Access and relationship to street
   
154.177   Reference monuments
Street Design Standards
   
154.190   Plan integration
   
154.191   Right-of-way and pavement widths
   
154.192   Topographical considerations
   
154.193   Limited access to arterials
   
154.194   Dead-end streets
   
154.195   Intersections
   
154.196   Reverse curves
   
154.197   Improvements to existing streets
   
154.198   When excess right-of-way required
Street Improvement Standards
   
154.210   Developer’s expense
   
154.211   Curb and gutter
   
154.212   Maintenance responsibility
Blocks
   
154.225   Block width
   
154.226   Block length
   
154.227   Crosswalks
Sidewalks
   
154.240   Required
   
154.241   Sidewalk construction standards
Streetlights
   
154.255   Intersection lighting
   
154.256   Streetlight system standards
Street Name Signs
   
154.270   Specification
Utilities
   
154.285   Utility location and easements required
   
154.286   Utility easements
   
154.287   Drainage easements
   
154.288   Maintenance easements
Water Facilities
   
154.300   Potable water required
   
154.301   Fire hydrants
Sanitary Sewers
   
154.315   Compliance with regulations
   
154.316   When public system planned
   
154.317   Alternate methods of disposal
Drainage and Storm Sewers
   
154.330   Purpose and intent
   
154.331   Special definitions
General Guidelines
   
154.345   Applicability
   
154.346   Affidavit of disclosure of property interest
   
154.347   Method of evaluation
   
154.348   Detention of differential runoff
   
154.349   Flows from upstream areas
   
154.350   Facilities in floodplains
   
154.351   Land credit for detention facilities
Design Criteria
   
154.365   General requirements
   
154.366   Other references
   
154.367   Storm water runoff
   
154.368   Hydraulic considerations for detention storage
Plan Requirements
   
154.380   Plan requirements
   
154.381   Construction alternatives
Inspection, Maintenance and Acceptance by Village
   
154.395   Inspection
   
154.396   Maintenance
   
154.397   Acceptance
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Table A: Street design specifications
   
Appendix B: Figures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as and may be referred to as the
“Subdivision Code of the Village of Moweaqua”.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-1)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-12-5, 5/11-12-8 through 5/
11-12-12, 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.) this chapter regulates the subdivision and
development of land in order to implement the comprehensive plan and official
map duly adopted by the village.
   (B)   Thus, this chapter assists in achieving the following specific
objectives:
      (1)   To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare;
      (2)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
and efficient layout and use of land and by facilitating aesthetic urban
design;
      (3)   To establish accurate legal records, to avoid development in
wetland areas, and to avoid legal and other problems by requiring that
subdivided land be properly monumented and recorded;
      (4)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements and
buildings throughout the village;
      (5)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the village to the
maximum feasible extent, including preservation of such features as stands of
trees, streams, significant archaeological sites and historical landmarks;
      (6)   To provide adequate light, air and privacy for all residents of new
developments by preventing undue concentration of population;
      (7)   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution,
flooding, storm water runoff or erosion and sedimentation;
      (8)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to
avoid traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the
proper location, design and construction of streets and sidewalks;
      (9)   To provide an environment whereby the cost of installing and
maintaining adequate water mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers and other
utilities and services can be kept at a minimum; and
      (10)   To ensure that adequate parks, schools and similar facilities can
be made available to serve the residents.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-2)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all planned developments
whether residential, commercial or otherwise in nature, and to any other
developments whether a plat is required or not under the law, statutes,
ordinances or regulations of the governmental body or agency having
jurisdiction or control, and regardless of whether the same is labeled a
subdivision or not, it being the intent of this chapter to apply to all types
of development, both within the village and to areas lying within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits of the village.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-3)
§ 154.004 INSTANCES WHEN PLATS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED.
   The provision of these regulations do not apply and no plat is required in
any of the following instances:
   (A)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access or add special utility easements;
   (B)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or
add special utility easements;
   (C)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
   (D)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or add
special utility easements;
   (E)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyance relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   (F)   Conveyance made to correct description in prior conveyances;
   (G)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
recorded on or before July 17, 1959 and not involving any new streets or
easements of access or add special utility easements;
   (H)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or add special
utility easements; and
   (I)   The sale of a single lot of less than two acres from a larger tract
when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided, however, that this
exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract existing as of October 1, 1973.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-4) (Ord. 2016-10, passed 9- -2016)
§ 154.005 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   From the effective date of Ordinance 2016-10 (September 2016), the standard
for determination of the requirement for subdivision standards and requirements
as provided in the Illinois Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.) shall be changed
from “less than five acres” to “less than two acres”.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 9- -2016)
§ 154.006 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Every provision of this chapter shall be construed
liberally in favor of the village, and every regulation set forth herein shall
be considered the minimum requirement for the promotion of the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (B)   More restrictive requirements apply. Whenever the requirements of this
chapter differ from those of any statute, lawfully adopted ordinance or
regulation, easement, covenant or deed restriction, the more stringent
requirement shall prevail. Thus, in accordance with state law whenever this
chapter imposes higher standards than the county subdivision code, said higher
standards shall supersede the county regulations in the unincorporated
territory located within the village’s subdivision jurisdiction.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-11
§ 154.007 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, Board member, agent or employee of the village shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her
duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, Board member, agent or employee
of the village, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge
of his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the Village
Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, see 745
ILCS 10/1-101
§ 154.008 REVIEW AND EXPIRATION.
   This chapter shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission every
ten years for necessary amendments.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-7) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.020 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS.
   In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this chapter, the
following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in §
154.021; terms not defined in §
154.021 shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in the village’s
zoning code (
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances); if any term is not defined either in §
154.021 or in the zoning code, said term shall have its standard English
dictionary meaning.
   (B)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (D)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
vice versa.
   (E)   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is discretionary.
   (F)   Captions (i.e., titles of sections, divisions and the like) are
intended merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the
substantive application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
   (G)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions within
that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only that
division.
   (H)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(1999 Code, § 34-2-1)
§ 154.021 SELECTED DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor and the Village Board to
administer the subdivision and development code (this
Chapter 154).
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street, and which
may be used for utility purposes.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this code, properly effected in
accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
   AREA, BUILDING. The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
unenclosed patios, terraces and steps.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed
for subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved for
street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
   AREA, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street and alley
rights-of-way and public use.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street designed or utilized primarily for high vehicular
speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with intersections
at grade, and on which traffic-control devices are used to expedite the safe
movement of through traffic.
   BARRIER (NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL). Any street, highway, river, pond, canal,
railroad, levee, embankment or screening by a fence or hedge.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
rights-of-way (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a
subdivision unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or R.O.W.) or bounded
by a combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights- of-way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether temporary, semi-permanent or permanent,
designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of
persons or property.
   BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
   CATCH BASIN. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a storm
sewer, designed to retain matter that would not easily pass through the storm
sewer.
   CENTERLINE.
      (1)   The CENTERLINE of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
      (2)   The original CENTERLINE, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; and
      (3)   The new CENTERLINE, whenever a road has been relocated.
   CENTERLINE OFFSET. The distance between the centerline of two roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both said
“parallel” streets intersect.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision planned and constructed so as to group
housing units into relatively dense patterns while providing a unified network
of open space and wooded areas, and meeting the requirements of this chapter
and Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and
which may or may not be continuous.
   COMMON LAND. That land set aside for open space or recreational use for the
owners of the lots of a subdivision, which land is conveyed by the developer in
fee simple absolute title by warranty to trustees whose trust indenture shall
provide that said COMMON LAND be used for the sole benefit, use and enjoyment
of the lot owners present and future. No lot owner shall have the right to
convey his or her interest in the COMMON LAND except as an incident of the
ownership of a regularly platted lot.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the Village
Board to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of the
village. The village’s COMPREHENSIVE PLAN may include, but is not limited to,
plans and programs regarding the location, character and extent of highways,
bridges, public buildings or uses, utilities, schools, residential, commercial
or industrial land uses, parks, drainage facilities and the like.
   CROSS-SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way rather
than in the direction traffic moves on said right-of-way.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor local street having only one outlet for vehicular
traffic and having the other end permanently terminated by a turn-around for
vehicles; the term may also be used to refer solely to said turn-around.
   CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL. The rim forming the edge of a street plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of concrete as a single
facility.
   DEDICATE. To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land or
improvement to the village or other appropriate government entity without
compensation.
   DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area, expressed as gross dwelling units per acre.
   DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the net acreage.
See definition of AREA, NET.
   DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and the arrangement of
easements, lots and rights-of- way, including specifications of materials,
alignment, grade and width of these elements.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
   DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of the village wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots
and uses under the terms of the village’s zoning code (
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch which carries
storm water runoff or which is fed by street or building gutters or by storm
water sewers, or which serves the purpose of draining water from the lands
adjacent to such watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or a
person of the use of land for limited and specifically named purpose.
   ESCROW DEPOSIT. A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure the
completion of improvements within a subdivision.
   FILING DATE. The date that the applicant has filed the last item of required
data or information with the Village Clerk and has paid the necessary fees for
review by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. All land subject to periodic inundation from overflow of
natural waterways.
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor street fronting on an arterial street or highway
(usually a limited access highway), used for access to abutting lots.
   GRADE. The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way, expressed as a
percentage. Synonym for SLOPE.
   HILLSIDE AREA. An area with an average slope of 20% or more.
   IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas, storm water, telephone and cable television) to be
installed or agreed to be installed by the subdivider on land to be used for
public or private streets, and easements or other purposes as are necessary for
the general use of lot owners in the subdivision. Including the furnishing of
all materials, equipment, work and services such as engineering, staking and
supervision, necessary to construct all the improvements required in §§
154.160,
154.161,
154.175 through
154.177,
154.190 through
154.198,
154.210 through
154.212,
154.225 through
154.227,
154.240,
154.241,
154.255,
154.256,
154.270,
154.285 through
154.288,
154.300,
154.301,
154.315 through
154.317,
154.330,
154.331,
154.345 through
154.351,
154.365 through
154.368,
154.380,
154.381 and
154.395 through
154.397 or any other improvements that may be provided by the subdivider. All
of such materials, equipment and services shall be provided at the subdivider’s
cost and expense, although he or she may enter into a contract with individuals
and firms to complete such IMPROVEMENTS, and the IMPROVEMENTS shall be subject
to the final approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Village
Board.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for earth moving and for the structures and facilities to
be installed both in, or in conjunction with, a subdivision. PLANS must include
drainage, streets, alleys and utility locations to be installed in or in
conjunction with a subdivision also, include overall drainage plan and its
effect on contiguous land and source of effluent or discharge.
   INLET. A receptacle, located where surface and/or groundwater can run to by
gravity to be received by the storm sewer.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way (generally
streets) meet.
   LAND USE PLAN. The comprehensive long-range plan for the desirable use of
land, the purpose of such plan being, among other things, to serve as a guide
to the zoning and progressive subdividing and use of undeveloped land.
   LOCAL STREET. A street serving limited amounts of residential traffic, and
for access to abutting property, and on which the speed limit is low and the
traffic volume minimal.
   LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate
or future) of development or transfer of ownership. A LOT may or may not
coincide with a LOT OF RECORD.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot, exclusive of any land designated for street right-of-way.
   LOT, BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front end and the rear
lot lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot whose side lines do not abut any street.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. On a corner
lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the frontage having the least dimension.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from
the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A CORNER
SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is called a STREET SIDE LOT LINE.
A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an INTERIOR
SIDE LOT LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds in accordance with state law.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a part of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angle to
the general direction of the side lot lines.
   MAINTENANCE BOND. A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by the
village, guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of installed improvements for
the one-year period following their dedication.
   MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A combination of maps, drawings, site plans, charts
and supportive narrative material that portrays total development to be
achieved in the overall project area; which provides sufficient detailed
information to both illustrate and describe the intended character and
configuration of development to be accomplished.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A description of real property which is not described by
reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by starting at a
known point and description of the lines forming the boundaries of the property
or delineates a fractional portion of a section, lot or area by describing
lines or portions thereof.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A graphic statement of the existing and proposed capital
improvements planned by the village which require the acquisition of land such
as streets, drainage systems, parks and the like.
   OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to
be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
these regulations.
   PARKING LANE. An auxiliary lane of a street and primarily used for vehicular
parking.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way dedicated to public use which cuts across a
block to facilitate safe pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. A surety bond posted by the developer and approved by the
village, guaranteeing the installation of required improvements within, or in
conjunction with, a subdivision.
   PERSON. Any agent, individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
syndicate or trust.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the
village.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A comprehensively planned development
containing residential, commercial, industrial or other land uses on an area of
land under continuing unified control. A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT may contain a
single type of land use or combination of land uses provided that such
development is reviewed, evaluated and approved by the village and satisfies
the requirements contained herein.
   PLANS. All of the drawings including plats, cross-sections, profiles,
working details and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent and details of improvements required in
this chapter and which PLANS shall conform to any requirements of the Planning
and Zoning Commission as to scale and details for submittal to the approval
officials of the village for consideration, approval or disapproval.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final engineering and architectural maps, drawings and
supporting material indicating the subdivider’s plan of the subdivision which,
if approved, may be filed with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. Preliminary engineering and architectural maps, drawings
and supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision.
   PROJECT AREA. The territory intended to be subdivided or developed, and
portrayed and defined in the preliminary and final plats.
   RESERVE. To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition by
the village or other appropriate government entity for public purposes.
   RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land between a public street and adjacent
lots which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property deed as
land over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
   RESUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   RETENTION AREA. An area of land designed to capture water runoff from a
developed parcel and release it at a specified rate of flow as determined by
engineering studies. (See §
154.198.)
   REVERSE CURVE. A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an S-shape.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the village or other appropriate government entity for streets,
alleys and other public improvements; sometimes abbreviated as R.O.W.
   ROADBED. The graded portion of a street upon which the base course, surface
course, shoulders and median are constructed.
   ROADWAY. The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel way, curbs and gutter.
   SETBACK LINE. A line that is usually parallel to the front, side or rear lot
line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or rear
yard.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian way constructed in compliance with the standards of
this chapter, generally abutting or near the curb line of the street.
   SLOPE. The degree of inclination of site or right-of-way expressed as a
percentage. Synonym for GRADE.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The County Soil and Water Conservation
District.
   STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian or bicycle use only.
   STREET AREA SERVICE HIGHWAY. Area service highways interconnect collectors
and land access streets with the principal system and vice versa, brings all
developed areas within a reasonable distance of principal streets, connects and
provides direct access to major traffic generators, provides secondary service
to smaller communities, may provide access to abutting property, and have a
medium volume design capacity and travel speeds.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A short, land-access street, having only one end open
for vehicular traffic, and the other permanently terminated by a turn-around
for vehicles.
   STREET, DEAD-END. Land access streets similar to cul-de-sacs, except that
they provide no turn-around circle at their closed end, and are not permitted
in any proposed subdivision.
   STREET, LAND ACCESS. Provide access to abutting properties, have a
relatively short travel distance and have a low volume design capacity and
travel speeds.
   STREET, LOOPED. Land access streets having two open ends, each end generally
connecting with the same street, no other streets intersecting between its
ends, and property fronts on both sides of the street.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS OR SERVICE ROAD. A land access street parallel and
adjacent to area service highways providing access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent or
temporary location on or in the ground, or is attached to something having a
fixed location on or in the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES but not all
STRUCTURES are buildings (e.g., a fence).
   STUB OR BUTT STREET. A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is
planned for future continuation.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate
or other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide
land in a manner that constitutes a subdivision as defined in this section.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of land into two or more lots or parcels for the
purpose of either immediate or future sale, rental or building development or
use(s) other than agricultural use or production.
      (2)   Establishment or dedication of a public street or alley through a
tract of land regardless of size.
      (3)   The term SUBDIVISION shall also include all resubdivisions of land
or lots.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
   TRAVELWAY. The portion of a street used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
   VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of right-of-way or subdivision, and
to so note on the final plat recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   VARIANCE, SUBDIVISION. A relaxation in the strict application of the design
and improvement standards set forth in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is set forth in the zoning code (
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
nearest rear main building and the rear lot lines. The depth of the required
REAR YARD shall be measured horizontally from the nearest part of the main
building toward the nearest point of the rear lot lines.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between a main building and the side lot line, extending
from the front yard or front lot lines, where no front yard is required, to the
rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD shall be measured horizontally
from the nearest point of the side lot line toward the nearest part of the main
building.
   ZONING CODE. The zoning code of the village, as set out in Chapter 155 of
this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 34-2-2)
PLAT AND PLANS; PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 154.035 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   Before preparing a proposed plat for an area, the owner, developer his, her
or their representatives should have a pre-application meeting with the
Planning and Zoning Commission and/or the Village Planner to determine
applicable ordinance regulations and standards which must be complied with.
After the pre-application meeting(s), the subdivider should then prepare the
preliminary plat. As defined in the subdivision code, the preliminary plat must
contain a substantial amount of data, and will thus be incomplete and cannot be
considered as filed until all required data are submitted. The preliminary plat
is received with filing fees by the Village Clerk’s office, who, in turn, will
forward the same to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its review.
Following its review (as well as comments from other appropriate agencies when
required), the Planning and Zoning Commission forwards its recommendation(s) to
the Village Board, who then either approve, disapprove or approve with
modifications the preliminary plat.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-1) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.036 FILING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise below, every person who
proposes to subdivide any land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of
this municipality shall file six copies of the preliminary plat of said
subdivision with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   He or she shall also file one copy of the preliminary plat and
supporting data with the appropriate Soil and Water Conservation District. Said
district shall have not more than 30 days to submit any comments it might wish
to make to the Administrator.
   (C)   Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a portion
of that tract is to be submitted for final plat approval, nonetheless, a master
development plan of the entire tract shall be submitted.
   (D)   (1)   All preliminary plats shall be reviewed and acted upon in
accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 and the provisions of the sections below.
      (2)   Exception: the provision of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Minor subdivisions as defined in §
154.021; or
         (b)   Land that is specifically exempted from the Illinois Plat Act,
being 765 ILCS 205 as now or hereafter amended.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 70 ILCS 405/22.02A, 765 ILCS 205/1(b)
§ 154.037 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by an state registered land
surveyor at any scale from one inch equals 20 feet through one inch equals 100
feet provided the resultant drawing does not exceed 36 inches square:
   (A)   Small key map showing the relation of the proposed subdivision to
section or U.S. survey lines and to platted subdivisions and dedicated roads
within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision;
   (B)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider (if not the owner) and
registered professional engineer;
   (C)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
   (D)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided, and of
the adjacent land;
   (E)   North arrow, graphic scale and date of map;
   (F)   The gross and net acreage area of the proposed subdivision, the
acreage of streets and of any areas reserved for the common use of the property
owners within the subdivision and/or for public use;
   (G)   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision;
   (H)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to known land lines;
   (I)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by two-foot
contour data for land having slopes of 0% to 4%, five-foot contour data for
land having slopes between 4% to 12%, and ten-foot contour data for land having
slopes of 12% or more;
   (J)   Any proposed alteration, adjustment or change in the elevation or
topography of any area;
   (K)   Locations of such features as bodies of water, ponding areas, natural
drainageways, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks, schools and the like;
   (L)   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the proposed
subdivision; showing the names and including street right-of-way and paving
widths; approximate gradients; types and widths of pavement, curbs, sidewalks,
crosswalks, planting strips and other pertinent data, including classification
of all existing or proposed streets as to function as collector, major, minor
or county road;
   (M)   A copy of the results of any tests made to ascertain subsurface rock
and soil conditions and the water table;
   (N)   Locations, widths and purposes of all existing and proposed easements;
   (O)   A copy of the description of all proposed deed restrictions and
covenants;
   (P)   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary and storm sewers;
   (Q)   Locations, types and approximate sizes of all other existing and
proposed utilities;
   (R)   Building setback or front yard lines and dimensions;
   (S)   Locations, dimensions and areas of all parcels to be reserved or
dedicated for schools, parks/playgrounds and other public purposes;
   (T)   Locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing lots
within the subdivision; and
   (U)   Information as defined in §
154.038(B).
(1999 Code, § 34-3-3)
§ 154.038 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall either approve or
disapprove the application for preliminary plat approval within 60 days from
the date of said application or the filing of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the subdivider mutually agree to extend this time limit. If the
Planning and Zoning Commission disapproves the preliminary plat, it shall
furnish to the applicant, within the 60-day period, a written statement
specifying the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to this
chapter and/or the official map. If the Planning and Zoning Commission approved
the preliminary plat, it shall inform the Village Board that action can be
taken at the next regularly scheduled Village Board meeting.
   (B)   Notice of meeting. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall give
notice of its consideration of any preliminary plat and allow the opportunity
to be heard to the following person(s) or groups during its preliminary review
time span:
      (1) Any person requesting notification of the meeting;
      (2)   Any property owner whose property is contiguous to the property,
including property across the streets, railroads, creeks and similar barriers;
said information shall be provided by the applicant to the Village Clerk’s
office when filing the plat; and
      (3)   Any governmental or taxing body which requests notification of the
meeting.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-4) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.039 REVIEW BY VILLAGE BOARD; TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   (A)   The Village Board shall review the preliminary plat, along with the
Planning and Zoning Commission recommendations, and approve, disapprove or
approve subject to certain conditions and/or modifications said preliminary
plat within 30 days after its next regularly scheduled meeting following
receipt of the written Planning and Zoning Commission recommendations, unless
variances from zoning code requirements are needed, in which case, the Village
Board’s 30 days commence the day after the Board of Appeals hearing is held, as
required by the zoning code.
   (B)   If the Village Board rejects the preliminary plat, its resolution
shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to comply with this chapter
and/or the official map. The Village Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the
Board’s resolution of approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat. One copy
of the resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be
filed with the Administrator and one copy shall be sent to the subdivider by
return receipt mail.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-5) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.040 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF SUBDIVIDER.
   Preliminary plat approval shall confer the following rights and privileges
upon the subdivider.
   (A)   The preliminary plat will remain in effect for a one-year period from
the day the Village Board approves the same. The applicant may, during this
period, submit all or part or parts of said preliminary plat for final
approval. In the event that the subdivision is being developed in stages, the
applicant may, by written mutual agreement with the Village Board, have final
approval of the last part of the plat delayed for a period not to exceed five
years from the date of the preliminary plat approval. Any part of a subdivision
which is being developed in stages shall contain a tract of land at least one
block in area or five gross acres.
   (B)   The general terms and conditions under which the preliminary plat
approval was granted will not be changed for final approval.
   (C)   The applicant may also proceed with any detailed improvement plans
required for all facilities or utilities intended to be provided. Actual
construction of such facilities and improvements may commence prior to final
plat approval if the detailed improvement plans have been recommended by the
Village Engineer and approved by the Village Board, provided that such
facilities and improvements will be inspected throughout their construction,
and final plat approval will be contingent in part upon acceptable compliance
to village improvement and facilities standards. If the applicant does not
submit the improvement plans prior to the submission of the final plat, then he
or she shall submit the improvement plans to the Village Clerk’s office at the
time that the final plat is submitted.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-6)
IMPROVEMENT PLANS
§ 154.055 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   After the Village Board has approved the preliminary plat, but prior
to submission of the final plat, the developer shall furnish six copies of the
plans and specifications for all improvements to be installed within or in
conjunction with the proposed development to the Village Clerk, pay all
associated filing fees before review by the Village Engineer. These plans and
specifications shall be signed and sealed by the registered professional
engineer responsible for their preparation.
   (B)   Until the Village Engineer certifies in writing that the proposed
improvements conform to generally accepted engineering practices and the
standards in this chapter:
      (1)   The Administrator shall not issue any building permit to allow
construction of said improvements; and
      (2)   The Village Board shall not act upon the application for final plat
approval.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-8)
§ 154.056 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Improvements plans shall consist of black or blue line prints not
larger than 36 inches square.
   (B)   These plans and the related specifications shall provide all of the
following information:
      (1)   Topography of the tract, both before and after development at the
same scale as the approved preliminary plat;
      (2)   Existing and proposed elevations along the centerline of all
streets;
      (3)   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets;
      (4)   Locations and typical cross-section of street pavements including
curbs/gutters, catch basins and inlets;
      (5)   Locations and typical cross-section of sidewalks and driveway
aprons;
      (6)   Locations, sizes and invert elevations of all existing and proposed
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and fire hydrants, showing connections to any
existing or proposed utility systems;
      (7)   Locations and sizes of all water, gas, electric and other
utilities;
      (8)   Locations of street lighting standards and street signs;
      (9)   One or more benchmarks, when requested by the Engineer, in or near
the subdivision, to which the subdivision is referenced; the identity and
elevation shall be based on sea level datum;
      (10)   All proposed measures to control erosion and sedimentation;
      (11)   High water elevations of all lakes/streams adjoining or within the
tract;
      (12)   Such other information as the Village Engineer may reasonably
require to perform his or her duties under this section; and
      (13)   Existing and proposed survey monuments on street plans or on the
proposed final plat as required by this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-9)
§ 154.057 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   The subdivider/developer shall notify the Zoning Administrator of both the
start and completion of construction.
   (A)   The Administrator shall inspect said improvements while they are under
construction. If he or she or his or her designated deputy determines that they
are being built in violation of this chapter, he or she shall request that the
Administrator promptly issue a stop order.
   (B)   The Administrator and Village Engineer shall inspect improvements upon
their completion. This municipality shall not accept any completed improvement
until the Administrator and Engineer have stated in writing that it complies
with this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-10)
§ 154.058 FILING “AS-BUILT” RECORDS.
   (A)   The subdivider/developer shall file with the Administrator a set of
reproducible cloth- or polyester-base film positive showing the as-built-
details and any deviations from the approved plans upon the completion of
improvements, or when 50% of the building permits have been issued in a given
plat.
   (B)   The subdivider/developer shall pay the costs to add water, sewer,
street, and storm water improvements to the overall village map(s);
   (C)   If the Administrator finds the as-built to be unacceptable, building
permits shall be discontinued until such time as the information is acceptable.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-11)
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.070 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT; IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Village Board shall not approve any final plat of subdivision (and,
hence, said final plat shall not be entitled to recording) until:
   (A)   All improvements required in the improvements plan have been completed
by the subdivider/developer at his or her expense, inspected by the
Administrator and Engineer, and dedicated to this municipality or other
appropriate entity; or
   (B)   In accordance with the sections below, the subdivider/developer has
provided this municipality with legal assurance to guarantee the satisfactory
completion and dedication of all required improvements.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-13)
§ 154.071 FORMS OF ASSURANCE.
   (A)   At the option of the Village Board, the required legal assurance may
be either a performance bond or an escrow deposit.
   (B)   Every performance bond shall be reviewed by the Village Attorney, and
posted with the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Any funds to be held in escrow shall be deposited with the Village
Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-14)
§ 154.072 AMOUNT OF BOND OR DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The amount of the performance bond or escrow deposit shall be equal to
the Village Engineer’s opinion of probable costs of constructing the
uncompleted portion of the required improvements plus all required inspection
fees.
   (B)   Any escrow deposit may be in the form of:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a lending
institution guaranteeing to this municipality the availability of the escrow
funds from time to time upon demand; or
      (3)   Certificates of deposit, treasury bills or other readily negotiable
instruments approved by the Village Clerk, and made payable to this
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-15)
§ 154.073 ELIGIBLE SURETIES.
   No person shall be eligible to act as surety unless he or she has been
approved by the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall conduct or cause to be conducted
spot audits of all sureties. Any surety who fails to perform shall be
ineligible for two years thereafter to act as surety for any subdivision
improvement within this municipality’s jurisdiction.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-16)
§ 154.074 TERMS OF ASSURANCE; EXTENSION.
   The initial term of any performance bond or escrow agreement shall not
exceed two years. If all the required improvements have not been completed by
the end of the two-year period, the Planning and Zoning Commission, with the
advice and consent of the Village Board, may either extend said bond/escrow
agreement for one year only, or may proceed as per §
154.076.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-17) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.075 RELEASE OF BOND/ESCROW DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The Village Clerk may release up to 90% of the amount of the
performance bond/escrow deposit upon receipt of written authorization from the
Administrator. The amount which the Administrator authorizes to be released
shall be equal to the value of improvements actually completed in accordance
with approved plans.
   (B)   The balance of the amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit shall
not be released by the Village Clerk until:
      (1)   The Administrator has certified to the Administrator in writing
that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed; and
      (2)   Said improvements have been accepted by and dedicated to this
village or other appropriate entity.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-18)
§ 154.076 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of the
two-year period (or three-year period, in the case of an extension), the
Administrator, with the assistance of the Village Attorney, may:
   (A)   Require the surety to perform on the bond, and to pay to this
municipality an equal amount to the cost of completing the required
improvements or the amount of the bond not theretofore released, whichever is
less;
   (B)   Order the Village Clerk to retain all escrow funds needed to complete
the required improvements, and to return the balance (if any) of such funds to
the subdivider/developer; or
   (C)   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new performance bond/
escrow deposit in an amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of
constructing the required improvements.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-19)
FINAL PLATS
§ 154.090 VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL.
   The Village Board shall not approve any final plat unless it determines that
it is in compliance with all pertinent requirements of this chapter including
those set forth in the sections below.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-22)
§ 154.091 FILING; TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The subdivider of every subdivision, whether major or minor, but
excluding land specifically exempted from the Illinois Plat Act, as now or
hereafter amended (765 ILCS 205/1(b)), who desires final plat approval shall
file six copies of the final plat and supporting data with the Village Clerk
and pay all associated filing fees not later than one year after preliminary
plat approval has been granted. However, with the consent of the Village Board,
the subdivider may delay application for final approval of part(s) of the tract
shown on the preliminary plat for successive one-year periods. No subdivision
plat or re-plat shall be filed for record or recorded in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds, unless and until the approval of the village is
endorsed thereon. No lot shall be sold for such subdivision plat or re-plat
until it has been approved by the Village Board and filed for record in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds as required by the state statutes.
   (B)   For official filings, the subdivider shall file the approved final
plat with the County Recorder of Deeds within 60 days after the Village Board
has approved the same and the Mayor has affixed his or her signature thereto.
One copy of the final plat shall be given to the Village Clerk’s office by the
subdivider bearing the official stamp of the County Recorder attesting its
recording within 20 days of such action.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-23)
§ 154.092 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor on new linen
tracing cloth- or polyester-base film with waterproof black ink at a scale not
greater than 100 feet equals one inch, provided that the resultant drawing
shall not exceed 36 inches square.
   (B)   The final plat and supporting data shall portray/provide all of the
following information:
      (1)   North arrow, graphic scale and date;
      (2)   Name of subdivider, subdivision, identification of the portion of
the public lands survey in which the subdivision is located;
      (3)   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of
the tract, and the included area of the subdivision to the nearest one-
hundredth of an acre;
      (4)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot in 10,000 feet;
      (5)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot;
      (6)   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land within 300
feet, by record name, plat book and page number;
      (7)   Accurate locations of all existing streets intersecting the
boundaries of the subdivision;
      (8)   Right-of-way lines of all streets, other rights-of-way, easements
and lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles or bearings and curve data,
including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency and central angles;
      (9)   Name and right-of-way width of every proposed street;
      (10)   Purpose of any existing or proposed easement(s);
      (11)   Number of each lot, lot dimensions and (in a separate list) lot
areas;
      (12)   Purpose(s) for which sites, other than private lots, are reserved;
      (13)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions;
      (14)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land, and become
covenants in the deeds of lots;
      (15)   Certification of dedication of all public areas;
      (16)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established
official monument; reference corners shall be accurately described on the final
plat;
      (17)   Reference to known and permanent monuments and benchmarks from
which future surveys may be made together with elevations of any benchmarks;
and the surveyor must, at the time of making his or her survey, establish
permanent monuments (set in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost)
which mark the external boundaries of the tract to be divided or subdivided and
must designate upon the plat the locations where they may be found; and
      (18)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-24)
§ 154.093 CERTIFICATES REQUIRED.
   As required by state law (765 ILCS 205/2; 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8), certificates
shall be executed on the final plat.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-25)
§ 154.094 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW; ADVISORY REPORT.
   Within 30 days from the date of application for final plat approval, the
Mayor and Zoning Administrator shall review said final plat (and supporting
data), and shall each advise the Village Board in writing whether it
substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat and improvement plans.
A copy of their advisory report shall be forwarded to the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission may prepare an addendum to said
report (should it so desire), and forward same to the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-26) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.095 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The Village Board shall either approve or disapprove the application
for final plat approval by resolution within 60 days from the date of said
application or the filing of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless the Board and the subdivider mutually agree to
extend this time limit.
   (B)   The Village Board shall not approve any final plat unless:
      (1)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved preliminary
plat;
      (2)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design and
improvements standards of this chapter, zoning code and the official map;
      (3)   To the Board’s knowledge and belief, the final plat complies with
all pertinent requirements of state law; and
      (4)   Either of the following has been met:
         (a)   All required improvements have been completed, inspected,
accepted and dedicated; or
         (b)   The subdivider/developer has posted a performance bond or
deposited funds in escrow to guarantee the satisfactory completion and
dedication of all required improvements.
   (C)   If the Village Board disapproves the final plat, its resolution shall
specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the above conditions for
approval.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Board’s
resolution of approval or disapproval to the final plat. One copy of the
resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be filed
with the Administrator, and one copy shall be given to the subdivider.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-27)
§ 154.096 CHANGES IN APPROVED FINAL PLATS.
   Once a final plat is approved by the Village Board, it shall not thereafter
be modified; provided, however, that minor changes may be made upon written
application to the Administrator. Major changes require the filing of a new
final plat and complete re-review.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-28)
MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.110 SUBDIVIDER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The subdivider/developer shall maintain all the improvements in the
subdivision until they have been accepted by and dedicated to the village or
other appropriate entity.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-35)
§ 154.111 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   Prior to dedication, the subdivider/developer shall post a maintenance bond
with the Village Clerk in the form approved by the Village Attorney. Said bond
shall be in the amount determined by the Administrator to be sufficient to
guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required improvements for a period
of two years from the date of their acceptance and dedication. If at any time
during the two-year period the improvements are found to be defective, they
shall be repaired/replaced at the subdivider/developer’s expense. If the
subdivider/developer fails or refuses to pay such costs within 90 days after
demand is made upon him or her by the Administrator, the village shall use the
maintenance bond to make the necessary repairs/replacement. If the cost of
repairs/replacement exceeds the bond amount, the subdivider/developer shall be
liable for the excess. At the end of the two-year period, the maintenance bond
shall be released.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-36)
VACATION OF PLATS
§ 154.125 VACATION OF PLATS.
   In accordance with state law (765 ILCS 205/6, 205/7 and 205/8), any plat or
part thereof may be vacated by the owner of the tract, at any time before the
sale of any lot therein, by a written vacation instrument to which a copy of
the plat is attached. If there are public service facilities in any street,
other public way, or easement shown on said plat, the instrument shall reserve
to the village or other public entity or public utility owning such facilities
the property, rights-of-way and easements necessary for continuing public
service by means of those facilities and for maintaining or reconstructing the
same. The vacation instrument shall be approved by the Board of Trustees in the
same manner as plats of subdivision and shall also be approved by the County
Superintendent of Highways, the Highway Commissioner of the appropriate
township, the District Engineer of the State Department of Transportation, and
the public utilities. In the case of the platted tracts wherein any lots have
been sold, the written vacation instrument must also be signed by alt the
owners of lots in said tracts.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-37)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 154.140 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Enforcement Officer, referred to herein as the Administrator, is
hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the
following specific duties:
      (1)   To review and forward preliminary plats to the Planning and Zoning
Commission (see §§
154.035 through
154.040);
      (2)   To transmit improvements plans to the Village Engineer for his or
her review (see §§
154.055 through
154.058);
      (3)   To review and forward final plats to the Village Board (see §
154.091);
      (4)   To issue stop orders as necessary when the Administrator or Village
Engineer determines that approved improvements are being constructed in
violation of this chapter (see §
154.057);
      (5)   To pursue actions authorized at §
154.076 when a developer fails to complete required improvements;
      (6)   To evaluate and pass upon proposed changes in approved final plats
(see §
154.096);
      (7)   To review and forward applications for subdivision variances to the
Planning and Zoning Commission (see §
154.141);
      (8)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters pertaining to this
chapter including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, as-built records of
completed improvements (see §
154.058), final plats, variances and amendments; and
      (9)   To provide information to subdividers/developers and to the general
public on matters related to this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-1) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.141 SUBDIVISION VARIANCES.
   Any subdivider/developer desiring a variance from the requirements of this
chapter shall file a written application therefor with the Administrator at the
same time that he or she files his or her preliminary plat. The application
shall fully explain the grounds for the variance request, and specify the
section(s) of this chapter which, if strictly applied, would cause great
practical difficulties or hardship. The Administrator shall prepare an advisory
report on every variance application and submit it, together with the completed
application, to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-2)
§ 154.142 REVIEW BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the variance application and
the Administrator’s comments, perform on-site review when appropriate, and
submit its advisory report to the Village Board together with their
recommendation on preliminary plat approval (see §
154.038). The Planning and Zoning Commission’s advisory report shall be
responsive to all the variances standards set forth in §
154.143.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-3) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.143 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD; VARIANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   At the same meeting at which they take action on the application for
preliminary plat approval (see §
154.038), the Village Board shall decide by resolution whether to grant or deny
the requested subdivision variance. A copy of its decision, clearly stating its
reasons therefor and the exact terms of any variance granted, shall be attached
to both the preliminary and final plats.
   (B)   The Village Board shall not grant any subdivision variance unless,
based upon the information presented to them, it determines that:
      (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this chapter (see §
154.001);
      (2)   Strict application of the subdivision requirements (see §§
154.160,
154.161,
154.175 through
154.177,
154.190 through
154.198,
154.210 through
154.212,
154.225 through
154.227,
154.240,
154.241,
154.255,
154.256,
154.270,
154.285 through
154.288,
154.300,
154.301,
154.315 through
154.317,
154.330,
154.331,
154.345 through
154.351,
154.365 through
154.368,
154.380,
154.381 and
154.395 through
154.397) would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant, not a mere inconvenience;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the subdivision
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances creating the variance request are not
applicable to other tracts and, therefore, that a variance would be a more
appropriate remedy than a code amendment; and
      (6)   The variance, if granted, will not materially frustrate
implementation of the municipal comprehensive plan including the official map.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-4)
§ 154.144 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments to this chapter may be proposed by the Administrator, any
member of the Village Board, any Planning and Zoning Commission member, or any
party in interest. Every amendment proposal shall be filed on a prescribed form
in the Administrator’s office.
   (B)   The Administrator shall promptly transmit each proposal, together with
any comments or recommendations he or she may wish to make, to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for a public hearing.
      (1)   Public hearing, notice. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
hold a public hearing on every amendment proposal within a reasonable time
after said proposal is submitted to them. At the hearing any interested party
may appear and testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney. Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30 nor less than
15 days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within this municipality.
      (2)   Advisory report, action by Village Board. Within a reasonable time
after the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall submit an
advisory report to the Village Board. The Village Board shall act on the
proposed amendment at its next regularly scheduled meeting following submission
of this report. Without another public hearing, the Village Board may either
pass or reject the proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for further consideration.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-5) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.145 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The review for the preliminary plat shall be $50, plus $5 per lot.
   (B)   The final plat fee shall be $50 if no variation from the preliminary
plat, otherwise $50, plus $5 per lot whenever Planning and Zoning Commission
review is required.
   (C)   Improvement plan review and inspection fee shall be 1% of the total
opinion of probable cost for all improvements as determined by the Village
Engineer or by the total of all certified contracts for all work related to
improvements.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-6) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.146 FEES; TIME OF PAYMENT.
   All fees listed in §
154.145 shall be paid by the subdivider/developer or the applicant to the
Village Clerk’s office at the time of submission of documents.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-7)
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS GENERALLY
§ 154.160 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   No land within the subdivision and development jurisdiction of this
municipality shall be subdivided or developed in compliance with the
regulations of this subchapter and the applicable provisions of state law.
   (B)   No lot in any subdivision shall be conveyed until:
      (1)   The final plat of said subdivision has been approved by the Village
Board and recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds; and
      (2)   The portion of said subdivision in which the lot is located has
been improved in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter or until a
performance bond or other security has been posted to assure the completion of
such improvements.
   (C)   The Administrator shall not issue a building permit for any lot
conveyed in violation of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8, 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
§ 154.161 SUITABILITY FOR DEVELOPMENT GENERALLY.
   Land that is unsuitable for development due to flooding, poor drainage,
rough topography, adverse soil conditions or other features which will be
harmful to the health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
development and/or its surrounding areas shall not be subdivided or developed
unless the subdivider/developer formulates adequate plans/methods to solve the
problems caused by the adverse land conditions.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-2)
LOT REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.175 CONFORMITY WITH ZONING.
   (A)   All lots in a subdivision shall conform to the minimum lot area and
dimensions requirements of the zoning district in which said subdivision is
located; land that is under water or reserved for street improvements shall not
be counted to satisfy these minimum requirements.
   (B)   Every corner and through lot shall be large enough to permit
compliance with the district’s front setback requirements on every side of the
lot that faces a street.
   (C)   All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to avoid the creation
of unbuildable parcels.
   (D)   All lots shall contain adequate space for required off-street parking
and loading.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-4)
§ 154.176 ACCESS AND RELATIONSHIP TO STREET.
   Land shall be subdivided in such a way that each lot abuts a street. All
side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street right-of-way lines
or radial to curved street right-of-way lines except where a deviation from
this rule will provide a better street and lot design.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-5)
§ 154.177 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Stone or reinforced concrete reference monuments, set in the ground in
such a manner that they will not be moved by frost shall be placed in the field
in accordance with the Plat Act, as now or hereafter amended (765 ILCS 205/1).
   (B)   All lot corners shall be marked by one-half inch iron pins not less
than 24 inches long. These pins shall be driven into the ground deep enough
that they do not protrude above the ground surface more than one-half inch.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-6)
STREET DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.190 PLAN INTEGRATION.
   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed
street system indicated in the municipal comprehensive plan, and shall meet the
specifications set forth in
Table A, located in Appendix A at the end of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-8)
§ 154.191 RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   (A)   Every right-of-way established for subdivision purposes is to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and
not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. All
rights-of-way shall be dedicated to the public by the developer.
   (B)   The minimum pavement widths shall be as noted in
Table A.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-9)
§ 154.192 TOPOGRAPHICAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   Grades of street shall conform as closely as possible to the natural
topography, but shall not exceed the maximum grade nor be less than the minimum
grade indicated in the
Table A, table of street design specifications. All streets shall be arranged
so that as many as possible of the building sites are at or above street grade.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-10)
§ 154.193 LIMITED ACCESS TO ARTERIALS.
   Where a development abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to the Village Board
that access to said arterial street be limited by one of the following means:
   (A)   By subdividing lots so they back onto the arterial street and front
onto a parallel local street (double frontage lots), coupled with the
installation of screening in a reserve (access-restricting) strip along the
rear lot lines of such lots;
   (B)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loops entered from
and generally at right angles to the arterial street, with the rear lot lines
of the lots at the termini of such streets backing onto the arterial street; or
   (C)   A frontage road separated from the arterial street by a planting
strip, but having access thereto at suitable points.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-11) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.194 DEAD-END STREETS.
   (A)   Temporary stub streets. Streets shall be so arranged to provide for
the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
and police protection, and efficient provision of utilities, and where such
continuation comports with the village’s official map. If the adjacent property
is undeveloped and the street must dead-end temporarily, the right-of-way shall
be extended to the property line, and no strip that would prevent connections
with future streets shall be reserved. A temporary turnabout shall be provided
at the terminus of any temporary dead-end street.
   (B)   Permanent dead-end streets.
      (1)   For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police and
fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall be limited to 500 feet in
length.
      (2)   The terminus of a permanent dead-end street shall not be closer
than 50 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A cul-de-sac turnaround,
having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet and a minimum pavement radius
of 42 feet, shall be provided at the end of every permanent dead-end street.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-12)
§ 154.195 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Only two streets. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one
point.
   (B)   Right angles. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly
as possible at right angles; in no case shall two streets intersect at an angle
of less than 75 degrees. An oblique street shall be curved approaching an
intersection and shall be approximately at right angles with said intersection
for at least 100 feet therefrom.
   (C)   Proper alignment. Proposed new intersections along one side of an
existing street shall, whenever practicable, coincide with any existing
intersections on the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline
offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has divided lanes without median breaks at either
intersection. Intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall be at
least 800 feet apart.
   (D)   Curb radii. To permit safe vehicular movements at corners, the minimum
curb radius at the intersection of two streets shall be 20 feet, and the
minimum radius at the back of the curb shall be 32 feet.
   (E)   Flat grade. Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly terrain, an area having not greater than a 3% slope for a
distance of 50 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting
street shall be provided at the approach to an intersection.
   (F)   Maximum cross-slope. The cross-slopes on all streets, including
intersections, shall not exceed 3%.
   (G)   Adequate sight-lines. Where any street intersection will involve earth
banks or existing vegetation on the triangular area shown in Figure 1, in
Appendix B at the end of this chapter, the developer shall cut such ground and/
or vegetation (including trees) in connection with the grading of the public
right-of-way to the extent necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-13)
§ 154.196 REVERSE CURVES.
   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse curves
on local collector and collector streets (see Figure 2, in
Appendix B at the end of this chapter).
(1999 Code, § 34-5-14)
§ 154.197 IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING STREETS.
   Whenever any development abuts an existing street that is narrower than the
standards indicated in the
Table A, located in Appendix A at the end of this chapter, table of street
design specifications, the subdivider shall dedicate sufficient right-of-way on
the side abutting the development to permit compliance with those standards.
The developer shall improve said street to the standards imposed at §
154.211, and pay one-half the cost of said improvements.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-15)
§ 154.198 WHEN EXCESS RIGHT-OF-WAY REQUIRED.
   Right-of-way width in excess of the standards set forth in the table of
street design specifications, located in
Appendix A, shall be required where:
   (A)   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide adequate
earth slopes; or
   (B)   Due to the location of railroad tracks, additional width is needed to
construct overpasses, underpasses and approaches thereto.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-16)
STREET IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 154.210 DEVELOPER’S EXPENSE.
   (A)   All streets and alleys shall be improved solely at the expense of the
developer in accordance with the requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   All streets shall be graded as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   All new streets, which are created and dedicated for use within
a subdivision shall be graded, drained and surfaced in accordance with the
minimum requirements hereinbelow set forth and in a manner which will provide
complete and adequate drainage of all the streets, alleys and public grounds
which may be necessary in order to provide adequate and satisfactory drainage
along the side of any existing public street which lies adjacent to the
subdivision.
         (b)   In general, all such new streets within the subdivision and all
work to be undertaken thereon shall be designed and constructed according to
IDOT Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications as the same are in effect at the
time the preliminary plat and plans for such improvement work are submitted for
approval.
      (2)   Grading roadway and side slopes. The roadway shall be considered to
be that part of the improvement which lies between the right-of-way lines.
      (3)   Street construction standards. All streets within the
jurisdictional authority of the municipality other than state highways shall be
improved with pavements bounded by integral concrete curbs and gutter, in
accordance with the following criteria.
         (a)   Collector street pavements shall be provided with a bituminous
surface of one and one-half inches of bituminous concrete binder and one and
one-half inches of bituminous concrete surface Class 1 placed upon a crush
stone base course of CA #6 having a minimum thickness of six inches compacted.
The center 40 feet of the base course shall have a crown of three inches.
         (b)   Local street pavements shall be provided with a CA #6 crushed
stone base course, having a minimum thickness of seven inches compacted. An A-
2 surface treatment shall be applied in accordance with the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction of the State of Illinois,
Department of Transportation.
         (c)   The crushed stone base course shall be permitted to remain
throughout one winter season before the bituminous surface is placed thereon.
Following inspection of the base and subbase as to compaction and thickness of
the base by the Administrative Officer, he or she may, by authority in writing
to the subdivider, waive the winter season waiting period. Compaction based on
percent of optimum density.
         (d)   The subdivider shall be required to improve arterial streets
only to the width required by the current and immediate needs of his or her
subdivision consistent to the standards and specifications herein contained.
      (4)   Utility lines. Underground utilities in streets or rights-of-way or
in easements shall be installed prior to the construction of such streets and/
or alleys. Wherever possible, utilities will be placed in rear lot easements
with street placement permitted in only the most unusual circumstances.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-20)
§ 154.211 CURB AND GUTTER.
   All streets, except alleys and collector commercial, local commercial,
arterial or industrial, shall be constructed with portland cement concrete
vertical curb and gutter and/or V-type gutter. Only vertical curb and gutter
shall be constructed in industrial streets. The materials and construction
methods for curb and/or gutter shall conform with IDOT Roads and Bridges
Standard Specifications in accordance with the dimensions and specifications
shown, therefor, in the International Building Code.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-21)
§ 154.212 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Subsequent to completion of street construction by the subdivider, the
Village Engineer shall make a final inspection of all streets to ascertain the
acceptability of structural condition, earth slopes, drainage structures and
the like. If said inspection indicates no deficient items, the village shall
take formal action to accept the completed streets for maintenance based upon
the Engineer’s recommendation.
   (B)   Should any item need correction or repair, the subdivider will be
notified in writing of each deficiency. No street(s) will be accepted in a
subdivision until all streets comply with the village’s requirements to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer. In addition, the developer will be
required to provide a guarantee in the form of a surety bond in the amount of
$10,000 for a period of two years.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-22)
BLOCKS
§ 154.225 BLOCK WIDTH.
   Blocks shall be sufficiently wide to accommodate two tiers of lots having
the minimum depth required by the zoning district regulations; provided, that
this requirement may be waived in blocks adjacent to local collector or
collector streets, railroads or watercourses.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-25)
§ 154.226 BLOCK LENGTH.
   No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet nor shorter than 500 feet. Wherever
practicable, blocks along collector streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet
in length.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-26)
§ 154.227 CROSSWALKS.
   Crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be required through the center
of blocks more than 1,000 feet long where necessary to provide circulation or
access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation or other
community facilities.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-27)
SIDEWALKS
§ 154.240 REQUIRED.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be required:
      (1)   On the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission that
sidewalks are needed to ensure public safety and shall be installed by the
subdivider; and
      (2)   Along collector streets, near schools, and in shopping areas and
similar public places.
   (B)   These requirements shall not be waived unless the Planning and Zoning
Commission advises the Village Board that, in the area in question, sidewalks
are not needed to ensure public safety, and/or that topographical conditions
make the installation of sidewalks impractical.
   (C)   All sidewalks constructed within the municipality shall meet IDOT
Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-29) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.241 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Relationship to curb. The street-side edge of every sidewalk shall
either abut the curb or be located at least six feet from the curb to allow
sufficient space for tree planting.
   (B)   Width. Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide.
Nonresidential sidewalks shall be at least five feet wide.
   (C)   Thickness of concrete. All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete
at least four inches thick, except that across driveways the thickness shall be
increased to six inches and/or number six reinforcing mesh shall be used.
   (D)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than 6%.
   (E)   Ramps at intersections. When sidewalks are required, curbs shall be
cut and sidewalks shall be ramped at all intersections so as to enhance the
mobility of handicapped individuals.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-30)
STREETLIGHTS
§ 154.255 INTERSECTION LIGHTING.
   Streetlights shall be provided at each intersection of streets (or alleys)
within a subdivision and at each cul-de-sac, but in no event shall there be
less than one streetlight per 400 feet (or portion thereof) of street frontage
between intersections, or between a street intersection and the terminus of a
dead-end street. Additionally, in multi-family dwelling subdivisions, lighting
shall be provided within parking areas at a minimum rate of one light per 25
parking spaces or any fraction thereof.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-32)
§ 154.256 STREETLIGHT SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The design and installation of the streetlight system in every
subdivision shall be reviewed by the Administrator and the appropriate electric
utility company.
   (B)   The lighting intensity of each streetlight shall be equivalent, at a
minimum, to a 175-watt lamp or 6,800 mercury-luminary lamp. Each streetlight
standard (post) shall be at least 16 feet high.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-33)
STREET NAME SIGNS
§ 154.270 SPECIFICATION.
   (A)   Street name signs of the size, height and type approved by
Administrator shall be supplied and placed by the developer at all
intersections within or abutting any subdivision.
   (B)   Street names shall be sufficiently different in sound and spelling
from other street names in this municipality so as to avoid confusion. The
Village Clerk shall maintain a list of existing street names for reference.
   (C)   A street which is planned as a continuation of an existing street
shall bear the same name.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-35)
UTILITIES
§ 154.285 UTILITY LOCATION AND EASEMENTS REQUIRED.
   At locations within the subdivision where utilities and drainage facilities,
are not to be constructed within public rights-of-way, the subdivider shall
make provision for easements for such installations. Preliminary plats shall,
be submitted to the electric, gas and telephone companies for their input
regarding utility easements.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-37)
§ 154.286 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements, not less than 20 feet wide for sanitary sewers and
water mains and not less than 15 feet wide for gas, electric, telephone and
cable television, shall be provided where necessary. Normally, in the case of
abutting lots, an equal amount should be taken from each lot.
   (B)   Property owners may (at their own risk) plant shrubbery or hedges or
install fences on the easement areas.
   (C)   Utilities (private and public), however, in order to have access for
repair shall have the election to destroy said improvements and restore the
area only by grading and seeding, or to have alternate access through the
owner’s property.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-38)
§ 154.287 DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Adequate easements for storm water drainage shall be established along
any natural drainage channel and in such other locations as may be necessary to
provide satisfactory disposal of storm water from streets, alleys and all other
portions of the subdivision.
   (B)   The location and minimum widths of such easements shall be approved by
the Village Engineer.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-39)
§ 154.288 MAINTENANCE EASEMENTS.
   Maintenance easements of not less than five feet in width shall be provided
along all rear and side lot lines.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-40)
WATER FACILITIES
§ 154.300 POTABLE WATER REQUIRED.
   An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided to every platted lot
in accordance with State Department of Public Health regulations. If the public
water system is reasonably accessible, each lot shall be properly connected
thereto at the property line. All water distribution lines shall be at least
six inches in diameter.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-42)
§ 154.301 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Fire hydrants of the type approved by the Water and Sewer Superintendent
shall be installed in every subdivision as part of the water distribution
system. The distance from any lot to a hydrant, measured along the centerline
of the public right-of-way, shall not be greater than 400 feet.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-43)
SANITARY SEWERS
§ 154.315 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   All proposed sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the regulations of
the State Department of Public Health and the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, and shall be approved by the Village Board. All water and sewer lines
shall be constructed as per Standard Specifications for Water and Sewers Mains,
State of Illinois, 4th Edition, or as amended.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-45)
§ 154.316 WHEN PUBLIC SYSTEM PLANNED.
   In areas where the public sanitary sewerage system is not reasonably
accessible but where plans for the installation of said system have been
approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, sanitary sewers shall
be provided in accordance with such plans and temporarily capped. To serve the
subdivision until the time when connection to the public system becomes
practicable, an approved private central sewage disposal system shall be
installed, or individual sewage disposal systems may be used.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-46)
§ 154.317 ALTERNATE METHODS OF DISPOSAL.
   (A)   In the event it is not possible, or feasible, for the subdivider to
extend the public sewer system into the proposed subdivision, for whatever
reason, the subdivider has the right to petition the village to install an
alternative method of sewage disposal. Any such petition shall be considered on
an individual basis with each case standing on its own merit.
   (B)   No subdivision shall be approved without the village’s approval of the
method of sewage disposal.
      (1)   Private central sewage systems. Upon specific approval of the
Village Board, the subdivider may install a private central sewage system. The
village shall reserve the right to review and approve/reject the detailed plans
for such a system. Approval of the plans by the village shall in no way be
construed as acceptance of the design or operation or maintenance
responsibility for said installation. Such installation shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, and the Illinois Department of Public Health.
      (2)   Individual disposal systems. Upon written approval of the Village
Board, the subdivider may install individual sewage disposal systems providing
the lot size is in excess of 20,000 square feet. If such installations are
permitted, they shall be designed and installed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the requirements and regulations of the Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code of the Illinois Department of Public Health.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-47) Penalty, see §
154.999
DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS
§ 154.330 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to protect and promote the public
health, safety and general welfare. The criteria for storm water detention will
reduce the possibility of damage to public and private property, will reduce
the erosion on land and creek channels, will assist in the attainment and
maintenance of water quality standards, and will preserve and enhance the
environmental quality of the watercourses in the village. This criteria
provides uniform procedures for designing and checking the design of storm
drainage detention systems.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not recommend the approval of
any plat unless, after consultation with the Village Engineer, it determines
that the proposed provisions for storm water drainage are adequate. Drainage
improvements in the subdivision shall be coordinated with existing and planned
drainage improvements elsewhere so as to form an integrated municipal system.
The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of the
sanitary sewer system.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-49) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.331 SPECIAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any activity, including subdivisions, that alters the surface
of the land to create additional impervious surfaces including, but not limited
to, pavement, buildings and structures except:
      (1)   Additions to, improvements and repair of existing single-family and
duplex dwellings;
      (2)   Construction of any buildings, structures and/or appurtenant
service roads, drives and walks on a site having previously provided storm
water control as part of a larger unit of development consistent with the
original development plan;
      (3)   Remodeling, repair, replacement and improvements to any existing
structure or facility and appurtenances that does not increase the impervious
area on the site in excess of 10% or add one acre of impervious area; and
      (4)   Construction of any one new single-family or duplex dwelling unit,
irrespective of the site area on which the same may be situated.
   EMERGENCY SPILLWAY. A device or devices used to discharge water under
conditions of inflow that exceed the design inflow. The EMERGENCY SPILLWAY
functions primarily to prevent damage to the detention facility that would
permit the sudden release of impounded water. It shall be designed to handle
the run-off from a 100-year storm.
   FREEBOARD. The difference in elevation between the top of a structure such
as a dam or open channel and the maximum design water surface elevation or high
water mark and is an allowance against overtopping by waves or other transient
disturbances.
   IPSUSESCM. Illinois Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Manual, March 1982.
   PRINCIPAL SPILLWAY. A device, such as an inlet, pipe, weir and the like, to
discharge water during operation of the facility under the conditions of a 15-
year or less return frequency of the existing conditions, before the proposed
development.
   PRIVATE DETENTION FACILITY. Any detention facility located on and
controlling discharge from a site wholly owned and controlled by one owner and
not platted for future subdivision of ownership. Also, all facilities
incorporating detention storage of storm water in or on any of the following:
      (1)   Roofs of buildings or structures also used for other purposes;
      (2)   Paved or surfaced areas also used for other purposes; and
      (3)   Enclosed underground pipes or structures on private property when
the surface is used for other purposes.
   PUBLIC DETENTION FACILITY. Any detention facility controlling discharge from
a tributary area owned by more than one owner and/or platted for future
subdivision of ownership, except as defined as a private detention facility
herein.
   RATIONAL METHOD. An empirical formula for calculating peak rates of runoff
resulting from rainfall.
   TRIBUTARY AREA. All land draining to the point of consideration, regardless
of ownership.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-50)
GENERAL GUIDELINES
§ 154.345 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all development within the limits of the
village.
   (B)   Residential developments having a total area of less than five acres,
and commercial or industrial developments having a total area of less than two
acres, may be given a waiver by the village in accordance with §
154.143, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The village retains the right to require detention storage in all
cases in which the proposed development will generate excess runoff that
adversely affects the carrying capacity of the receiving watercourse.
      (2)   Developments less than two acres with less than 30% of the area
paved and developments generating less than one cubic foot per second (CFS)/
acre increased runoff shall not be required to provide detention storage,
unless the condition in division (B)(1) above is applicable.
      (3)   This chapter shall apply for all newly platted areas and new
developments proposed after the date of passage of this chapter. All
developments that have an approved preliminary plan by the Planning and Zoning
Commission at the time of the approval of this chapter will not have to conform
to this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-52) (Ord. 08/10/2010-1, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 154.346 AFFIDAVIT OF DISCLOSURE OF PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The effective acreage for a site is not limited to a fractional part of the
total. If a project is developed in phases or small plats, the total acreage of
the project site must be considered. At the time the owner of any development
submits a preliminary plat or preliminary plan, he or she shall also identify
to the village all contiguous property or property in the watershed that he or
she has interest in.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-53)
§ 154.347 METHOD OF EVALUATION.
   (A)   The storage capacity and discharge rate shall be based upon the
calculated volume and peak flow of the storm water runoff, respectively. The
calculations for sites having an area of 100 acres or less shall be made using
either the Illinois Manual for Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Method or
the rational method. If the site is larger than 100 acres then the Engineer
shall use the Illinois Manual for Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Method
or if another method is desired to be used, the Engineer shall submit a
proposed method of evaluation for the calculations for review and approval. The
permitted discharge rate of storm water runoff shall be determined by
calculating the rate of runoff for the site’s pre-and post-development
conditions.
   (B)   The Engineer shall determine the most critical storm looking at three
different time periods:
      (1)   The time of concentration;
      (2)   A one-hour storm; and
      (3)   A 24-hour storm.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-54)
§ 154.348 DETENTION OF DIFFERENTIAL RUNOFF.
   All new developments shall provide a storm water system that ensures that
the rate of flow of storm water runoff discharged from the site after
development does not exceed the rate of flow of storm water runoff discharged
from the site before development of a 25-year storm, unless given a waiver by
the village in accordance with §
154.143. Data shall be submitted for the 15-, 25- and 100-year frequency storm.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-55)
§ 154.349 FLOWS FROM UPSTREAM AREAS.
   Flows from upstream areas outside the site should be based upon the
assumption that those areas are fully developed under forecast land use
patterns. The required storage volume will be based upon the site only, with
flows from upstream areas being by-passed or discharged via overflow spillways
or other devices for the 100-year storm.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-56)
§ 154.350 FACILITIES IN FLOODPLAINS.
   If detention storage is provided within a floodplain, only the net increase
in storage volume above that which naturally existed on the floodplain shall be
credited to the development. No credit will be granted for volumes below the
elevation of the base flood at that location unless compensatory storage is
also provided. Where encroachments in the existing floodplain fill the valley
storage areas, an equal amount of detention volume shall be provided.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-57)
§ 154.351 LAND CREDIT FOR DETENTION FACILITIES.
   The number of units/lots shall be based on the total area of the tract to be
developed. All areas to be used as detention facilities shall be included in
this total area.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-58)
DESIGN CRITERIA
§ 154.365 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The design shall be accomplished under the direction of a registered
professional engineer. The design shall also be based on land use in the
tributary area as zoned, actually developed or indicated by an adopted future
land use plan, whichever basis produces the greatest runoff.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-60)
§ 154.366 OTHER REFERENCES.
   (A)   Other agencies have criteria and regulations pertaining to drainage
systems which may complement this criteria.
   (B)   When conflicts are encountered the most rigorous criteria shall
govern.
      (1)   Federal Insurance Agency: Floodplain Regulations and Implementing
Ordinances Adopted by Municipalities drainage systems designed within the
limits of the designated 100-year floodplain on the principal stream shall be
designed to convey the flood as defined by applicable published floodplain
information studies. For areas located in FIA Zone “A” outside the detailed
study area, the developer shall prepare studies and calculations establishing
the floodplain, elevation and width. These calculations shall be submitted to
the reviewing agency for approval.
      (2)   Illinois Department of Water Resources, Rules and Regulations of
Dams and Reservoirs shall apply to those structures classified as dams
thereunder.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-61)
§ 154.367 STORM WATER RUNOFF.
   The design criteria used in determining the amount of runoff shall be the
same as set out in §
154.330.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-62)
§ 154.368 HYDRAULIC CONSIDERATIONS FOR DETENTION STORAGE.
   (A)   Principal spillways. Shall be designed to meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   The principal spillway shall be designed to function without
requiring attendance or operation of any kind or requiring use of equipment or
tools.
      (2)   All discharge from the detention facility when inflow is equal to
or less than the 100-year inflow shall be via the principal spillway(s).
      (3)   The design shall allow for discharge of at least 80% of the
detention storage volume within 24 hours after the peak or center of mass of
the inflow has entered the detention basin. On basins less than 100 acres, this
shall not apply.
      (4)   The design discharge rate via the spillway shall continuously
increase with increasing head and shall have hydraulic characteristics similar
to weirs, orifices or pipes.
   (B)   Emergency spillways. The emergency spillway shall be provided to pass
a 100-year storm without damaging any property and, where applicable, designed
to Illinois Department of Water Resources Dam Safety Requirements.
   (C)   Outlet works. Shall have an outlet works consisting of valves, gates,
pipes and other devices as necessary to completely drain the facility in 72
hours or less when required for maintenance or inspection on normally wet
basins.
   (D)   Sediment storage. Shall be designed to provide for five years of
sediment accumulation. All other detention facilities shall provide storage for
two years of sediment accumulation, except, for those using roofs of buildings,
paved parking areas or other facilities designed to preclude the deposition or
accumulation of sediment. Sediment storage volume shall be in addition to the
volume required for temporary storage of storm water to properly size the
detention facility on normally wet basins.
   (E)   Erosion control. Principal spillways and outlet works shall be
designed to prevent erosion and if necessary equipped with energy dissipating
devices to slow the water to normal velocity as called out in the IPSUSESC
Manual. Special measures shall be taken by the developer to not permit sediment
from tilling the proposed detention basin during all construction of the
proposed development.
   (F)   Public detention facilities. The owner shall dedicate the detention
facility and easements as set forth upon completion of the one-year warranty
period and approval by the Village Engineer, except:
      (1)   When multipurpose wet facilities are planned or are suitable for
use for private aquatic recreation or for aesthetic enhancement of the owner’s
property; and
      (2)   When multipurpose dry facilities incorporate surface recreational
improvements.
   (G)   Private detention facilities.
      (1)   Shall be designed requiring the same criteria as the public
detention faculties.
      (2)   The amount of easement shall be equal to the land occupied by the
facility plus a 20-foot wide strip around the perimeter of the highest
elevation attained by the design storage volume, plus an excess easement 20
feet in width between the facility and public street. This easement shall be
shown as common ground or be dedicated to the trustees of the subdivision or
owner of the property for the purpose of maintenance of the storm water
detention facility.
      (3)   A plan for perpetual maintenance and designating responsibility for
the maintenance shall be provided for its continuing performance to the
standards established by this criteria.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-63)
PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.380 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The plan requirements shall be:
   (A)   Elevation area capacity curves for the storage facility including
notation of the storage volumes allocated to runoff, and permanent residual
water storage for other uses (wet basins only);
   (B)   Inflow hydrographs (detention volumes for rational method) for the
15-, 25- and 100-year recurrence interval design storms;
   (C)   Stage-discharge rating curves for each spillway and for combined
spillway discharges; and
   (D)   Routing curves for the 15-year and all greater criteria recurrence
interval design storms with time plotted as the abscissa and the following
plotted as ordinates (this item is not required for the rational method):
      (1)   Cumulative inflow volume;
      (2)   Cumulative discharge; and
      (3)   Stage elevation.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-65)
§ 154.381 CONSTRUCTION ALTERNATIVES.
   A developer shall build, as part of his or her development, a detention
basin as required by this chapter, unless the following sections apply.
   (A)   Developers of adjacent tracts may combine to build one detention site
large enough to meet the requirements of all the tracts of land with approval
of the village. The basin shall be located in the same drainage basin.
   (B)   On-site detention will be required whenever increased runoff from the
proposed development creates a hazard down stream as determined by the Village
Engineer.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-66)
INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND ACCEPTANCE BY VILLAGE
§ 154.395 INSPECTION.
   The developer shall inspect or cause to be inspected, all storm water
detention systems constructed within the village. Through such inspection
reports the Village Engineer shall ensure that the facilities under
construction are being constructed in accordance with the approved plans for
such development.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-68)
§ 154.396 MAINTENANCE.
   Each owner of the property being developed has the responsibility and duty
to properly operate and maintain any storm water management system which has
not been accepted for maintenance by the village. The responsibility of
maintenance of the system and subdivision projects shall remain with the
developer until such time as the storm water management system escrow for such
development has been released at the end of the one-year warranty period. Upon
release of escrow, the maintenance responsibility shall be vested in the
trustees of the subdivision by virtue of a trust indenture. Indenture of trusts
shall clearly indicate resident responsibility for maintenance. All such
privately owned maintained systems shall be subject to periodic inspections by
the Village Engineer or its representative. After an inspection by the Village
Engineer, he or she determines whether or not the conditions of the privately
owned storm water detention system are safe and correct. Any cost incurred by
the village, as a result of the Village Engineer’s actions, shall be attest
against the owner(s) of the system.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-69)
§ 154.397 ACCEPTANCE.
   Upon acceptance by the Village Board, the storm water detention system may
be dedicated to the village for perpetual maintenance. Any such system shall
include adequate perpetual access and sufficient area for maintenance by the
village personnel and vehicles.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-70)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including conditions and safeguards
established shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-72)
   (B)   Corrective actions. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village
from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to forbid or remedy any
violations. All such costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or
persons responsible.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-73)
   (C)   General penalty. Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject
to the penalty in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-74)
   (D)   Private central sewage systems; §
154.317. The subdivider shall assume perpetual operational and maintenance
responsibilities for private central sewage system installation unless
arrangements to the contrary are provided for in a formal written agreement
between homeowners and the subdivider. Failure of the subdivider to discharge
his or her operational/maintenance responsibilities may result in a fine of
$750 per day for each day a deficiency exists and shall apply to the
subdivider, his or her heirs, successors or assigns.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-47)
APPENDIX A: TABLE A: STREET DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS
TABLE A: STREET DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS
 
Residential    Max. No. of Permitted  Required Min.        Max.      Min.
Street         Dwelling    On- Street R.O.W.   Pavement    Gradient  Gradient
Classification Units/Net   Parking    (ft.)    Width (ft.) (%)       (%)
               Acre
               Over 250
Arterial       dwelling    None       70       28          6         1.0
               units
               served
Collector      4.50/       Both sides 50       34          6         1.0
               greater
Local          2.0—4.50  Both sides 45       30          6         1.0
Marginal       To 1.99     None       40       20          6         1.3
access
 
Commercial and Permitted               Min.
Industrial     On-Street  Required     Pavement    Max. Gradient Min. Gradient
Street         Parking    R.O.W. (ft.) Width (ft.) (%)           (%)
Classification
Local          None       60           26          10            1.0
Local          One side   60           34          10            1.0
Local          Both sides 60           42          10            1.0
Collector      None       80           44          8             1.0
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 34, Table 5-A)
APPENDIX B: FIGURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9e4ef7b0709675bf6bd27c2559406abe49fcdf7e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2794.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9e4ef7b0709675bf6bd27c2559406abe49fcdf7e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2796.jpg]
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 34)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Jurisdiction
   
155.004   Interpretation
   
155.005   Disclaimer of liability
   
155.006   Severability
   
155.007   Review
Definitions
   
155.020   Construction of terms
   
155.021   Selected definitions
Zoning General Regulations
   
155.035   Establishment of districts
   
155.036   Map; annual publication
   
155.037   Determining territorial limits
   
155.038   Annexed territory
   
155.039   General prohibition
   
155.040   Unlisted uses prohibited
   
155.041   Temporary uses
   
155.042   One principal building and meeting minimum requirements
   
155.043   Access required
   
155.044   Front setbacks; corner/through lots
   
155.045   Front setbacks in certain built-up areas
   
155.046   Yard intrusions
   
155.047   Height exceptions; necessary appurtenances
   
155.048   Height exceptions; intersections
   
155.049   Sewer and septic tanks
   
155.050   Accessory uses permitted
   
155.051   Accessory use restrictions
   
155.052   Area bulk regulations
   
155.053   Wind farms and electric-generating wind devices prohibited
Planned Developments
   
155.065   Planned development defined
   
155.066   Objectives
   
155.067   Compliance with regulations generally required
   
155.068   Districts where allowed
   
155.069   Permissible deviation from code requirements
   
155.070   Procedures for planned developments
   
155.071   Application; information required
   
155.072   Criteria considered
   
155.073   Decision by Zoning Board
   
155.074   Changes in approved plans
   
155.075   Failure to begin development
   
155.076   Municipal exemption
“A-1” Agricultural District
   
155.090   “A-1” Agricultural District
   
155.091   Special restrictions
   
155.092   Lot and building requirements
   
155.093   Permitted uses
   
155.094   Special uses
“SR-1” Single-Family Residence District
   
155.105   “SR-1” Single-Family Residence District (large lot)
   
155.106   Special restrictions
   
155.107   Lot and building requirements
   
155.108   Permitted uses
   
155.109   Special uses
“SR-2” Single-Family Residence District
   
155.120   “SR-2” Single-Family Residence District (small lot)
   
155.121   Special restrictions
   
155.122   Lot and building requirements
   
155.123   Permitted uses
   
155.124   Special uses
“MR-1” Multiple-Family Residence District
   
155.135   “MR-1” Multiple-Family Residence District
   
155.136   Lot and building requirements
   
155.137   Permitted uses
   
155.138   Special uses
“MH-1” Mobile Housing District
   
155.150   “MH-1” Mobile Housing District
   
155.151   Mobile housing lot ownership
   
155.152   Lot and building requirements, generally
   
155.153   Permitted uses
   
155.154   Special uses
   
155.155   Mobile home parks
Central Business District “B-1”
   
155.170   Description
   
155.171   Special restrictions
   
155.172   Lot and building requirements
   
155.173   Permitted uses
   
155.174   Special uses
Highway Business District “B-2”
   
155.185   Description
   
155.186   Use restrictions
   
155.187   Lot and building requirements
   
155.188   Permitted uses
   
155.189   Special uses
Industrial District
   
155.200   “I-1” Industrial District
   
155.201   Use restriction
   
155.202   Lot and structure requirements
   
155.203   Permitted uses
   
155.204   Special uses
Floodplain District
   
155.215   “O-FP” Floodplain Overlay District
   
155.216   Permitted and/or special uses
   
155.217   Additional restrictions
Supplementary Zoning Regulations
   
155.230   Applicability of subchapter
   
155.231   Recreational vehicles
   
155.232   Buffer strips, fences, walls and hedges
   
155.233   Service stations
   
155.234   Nursing homes and group homes
   
155.235   Junk yards
   
155.236   Home occupations
   
155.237   Schools
   
155.238   Swimming pools
   
155.239   Utility substations
   
155.240   Kennels
   
155.241   Agricultural activities
   
155.242   Lighting controls
   
155.243   Public buildings
   
155.244   Churches and houses of formal worship
Sign Regulations
   
155.255   General prohibition
   
155.256   Computation of sign area allowance
   
155.257   Definition of sign area
   
155.258   Special situations
   
155.259   Signs to be non-hazardous, well-maintained
   
155.260   Illumination
   
155.261   Nonconforming signs
   
155.262   Restrictions
   
155.263   Strictly prohibited signs
   
155.264   Signs permitted in any district
   
155.265   Agricultural; residential districts
   
155.266   Business; industrial districts
   
155.267   Temporary signs
Supplementary Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
   
155.280   Applicability of subchapter
   
155.281   Existing parking/loading facilities
   
155.282   Parking design and maintenance standards
   
155.283   Landscaping
   
155.284   Location of parking
   
155.285   Design and location of off-street loading facilities
   
155.286   Computation of required parking/loading spaces
   
155.287   Number of parking and loading spaces required
Nonconformities
   
155.300   Nature of nonconformities
   
155.301   Nonconforming lots
   
155.302   Nonconforming structures
   
155.303   Nonconforming uses occupying a structure
   
155.304   Nonconforming use of land
   
155.305   Nonconformities under permit authority
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.320   Zoning Administrator
   
155.321   Duties
   
155.322   Initial certificates of zoning compliance
   
155.323   Zoning application
   
155.324   Duration of certificate
   
155.325   Relationship to building permits
   
155.326   Final certificates of zoning compliance
   
155.327   Corrective action orders
   
155.328   Contents of order
   
155.329   Service of order
   
155.330   Stop orders
   
155.331   Emergency measures
   
155.332   Complaints
   
155.333   Fees
Special Procedures and Permits
   
155.345   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
155.346   Membership, appointment, compensation
   
155.347   Term of office; vacancies
   
155.348   Meeting; quorum
   
155.349   Records
   
155.350   Decisions
   
155.351   Period of validity
   
155.352   Finality of decisions of the Village Board
   
155.353   Office of the Secretary of the Board of Appeals
Appeals
   
155.365   Nature of appeal
   
155.366   Filing, record transmittal
   
155.367   Stay of further proceedings
   
155.368   Public hearing; notice
   
155.369   Recommendation of the Board of Appeals
   
155.370   Action by Village Board
Variances
   
155.385   Variances
   
155.386   Application
   
155.387   Public hearing; notice
   
155.388   Standards for variances
   
155.389   Decision by Board of Appeals
   
155.390   Action by Village Board
Special Uses
   
155.405   Special use permits
   
155.406   Application
   
155.407   Public hearing; notice
   
155.408   Advisory report; factors considered
   
155.409   Action by Village Board
   
155.410   Temporary use permits; procedure for
Amendments
   
155.425   Amendments
   
155.426   Filing
   
155.427   Public hearing; notice
   
155.428   Advisory report; findings of fact
   
155.429   Action by Village Board
   
155.430   When two-thirds majority vote is required
   
155.431   Notice to applicant of written protest
Solar Energy Installations
   
155.500   Scope
   
155.501   Purpose
   
155.502   Definitions
   
155.503   Permitted accessory use
   
155.504   Principal uses
   
155.505   Use table
   
155.506   Restrictions on solar energy systems limited
 
   
155.999   Penalty
Appendix A: Zoning Board of Appeals by-laws
Appendix B: Figures
Appendix C: Area and bulk regulations tables
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and cited as the “zoning code of the Village
of Moweaqua”.
(1999 Code, § 40-1-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, this chapter regulates structures and
land uses in order to preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety
and welfare.
   (B)   More specifically, this chapter is intended to assist in achieving the
following objectives:
      (1)   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate
sites in order to maximize community-wide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents, and to discourage
development on appropriate sites;
      (2)   To assist in implementing the comprehensive plan, if any;
      (3)   To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound
existing residential, commercial and industrial areas, and to gradually
eliminate nonconforming uses and structures;
      (4)   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout
the village;
      (5)   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air and privacy to the
occupants of all buildings;
      (6)   To protect persons and property from damage caused by fire,
flooding and improper sewage disposal;
      (7)   To provide adequate and well-designed parking and loading space for
all buildings and uses, and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public
streets and highways;
      (8)   To ensure the proper design and improvement of mobile home parks;
      (9)   To promote the use of signs which are safe, aesthetically pleasing,
compatible with their surroundings and legible in the circumstances in which
they are seen; and
      (J)   To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement of
all the substantive regulations in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-1-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1
§ 155.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of this
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 40-1-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor
of this municipality, and every requirement imposed in this chapter shall be
deemed minimal.
   (B)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from the requirements
of any other lawfully adopted ordinance, regulation, deed restriction or
covenant, the more stringent requirement shall prevail.
(1999 Code, § 40-1-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.005 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, Board member, agent or employee of this municipality shall render
himself or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, Board member, agent or employee
of this municipality, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the
Municipal Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1999 Code, § 40-1-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, see 745
ILCS 10/1-101
§ 155.006 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is declared unconstitutional or invalid by
a court of competent jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity
of the remainder of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-1-6) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.007 REVIEW.
   This chapter shall be reviewed every five years after its effective date by
the Zoning Board of Appeals. After the review, it shall file its
recommendations with the corporate authorities.
(1999 Code, § 40-1-7) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
DEFINITIONS
§ 155.020 CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS.
   In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this chapter, the
following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in §
155.021 unless the context clearly indicates otherwise; terms not defined in §
155.021 shall have their standard English meanings.
   (B)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (D)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   (E)   The term “shall” is mandatory.
   (F)   The term “may” is discretionary.
   (G)   The words “lots”, “parcel”, “tract”, and “site” shall be synonymous.
   (H)   The phrases “used for”, “arranged for”, “designed for”, “intended
for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for” shall be synonymous.
   (I)   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches or more shall be deemed one foot.
   (J)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions within
that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only that
division.
   (K)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(1999 Code, § 40-2-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.021 SELECTED DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. As applied to lots, ABUTTING means having a common lot line or
district line, or so located in relation to each other that there would be a
common lot line or district line but for the existence of a street, alley or
other public right-of-way.
   ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp or other means for providing vehicular access
to an off-street parking or loading area from a street.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
      (1)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal use or structure
which it serves;
      (2)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal use or structure served; and
      (3)   Located on the same lot as the principal use or structure served.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Village Board to administer this chapter, or his or her
representative. (Synonymous with ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.)
   AGRICULTURE. Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of
farm or truck garden crops; dairying; pasturage; horticulture; floriculture; or
animal/poultry husbandry. The term AGRICULTURE encompasses the farmhouse, and
accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural
activities.
   AISLE. A vehicular traffic-way within an off-street parking area, used as a
means of access/egress from parking spaces.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
   ALTER. To change the size, shape or use of a structure or the moving from
one location to another.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter (including those
portions incorporated by reference), properly effected in accordance with state
law and the procedures set forth herein.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a housekeeping unit for a
single family.
   APARTMENT HOTEL. A multiple-family dwelling which furnishes for its tenants
services customarily provided by hotels, but which does not furnish such
services to the transient public.
   ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, ATTACHED means having a common wall and/
or a common roof.
   AUDITORIUM. A room, hall or building made a part of a church, theater,
school, recreation building or other building assigned to the gathering, of
people as an audience, to hear lectures, plays and other presentations, as well
as participate in dances, dinners, expositions, bingos and the like.
   BASEMENT. A story having one-half or more of its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An operator-occupied residence providing accommodations
for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms for rent, in
operation for more than ten nights in a 12- month period. Breakfast and light
snacks/refreshments may be provided to the guests only. BED AND BREAKFAST
ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses or food
service establishments.
   BILLBOARD. A sign advertising a commodity, business, service or event not
available or conducted upon the premises where such sign is located or to which
it is affixed.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision
unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or way) or bounded by a
combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the village.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building or portion thereof other than a hotel, motel or
apartment hotel containing lodging rooms for three or more persons who are not
members of the keeper’s family, and where lodging and/or meals are provided by
prearrangement and for definite periods.
   BUFFER STRIP. An area of land undeveloped except for landscaping fences and
the like used to protect a use situated on one lot from the deleterious effects
of the use on the adjacent lot.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels.
   BUILDING, ENCLOSED. A building covered by a permanent roof and separated on
all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed exterior walls
or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finish grade at the front wall of the building to the highest
point of the roof.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot, delineating
the minimum open space required between the front of a structure and the street
right-of-way line.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A non-accessory building in which the principal use of
the premises is conducted.
   BULK. Any one or any combination of the following:
      (1)   Size or height of structure;
      (2)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or other structures;
      (3)   Floor/area ratio;
      (4)   Yards or setbacks; and/or
      (5)   Lot coverage.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A mobile structure designed for temporary occupancy.
   CAMPING TRAILER PARK. A lot developed with facilities for accommodating
temporarily occupied camping trailers.
   CENTERLINE.
      (1)   The CENTERLINE of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
      (2)   The original CENTERLINE, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; and
      (3)   The new CENTERLINE, whenever a road has been relocated.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, FINAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating that a newly completed structure complies with all
pertinent requirements of this chapter and. may, therefore, be occupied or
used.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, INITIAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating that proposed construction work is in conformity with
the requirements of this chapter and may, therefore may be occupied or used.
   CHURCH or BUILDING FOR RELIGIOUS WORSHIP. A building used by a corporate
religious institution that people regularly attend to participate in religious
services, meetings and other customary, integrally related religious
activities. The term CHURCH shall not carry a secular connotation and shall
include buildings in which the religious services of any denomination are held.
   CLINIC. An establishment where licensed physicians or dentists practice
medicine or dentistry, but where overnight lodging for sick or injured persons
is not provided.
   CLUB/LODGE. A nonprofit association or persons who are bona fide members
organized for some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
   COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A group home or specialized residential care home
serving unrelated persons with handicaps which is licensed, certified or
accredited by appropriate local, state or national bodies. COMMUNITY RESIDENCE
does not include a residence which serves persons as an alternative to
incarceration for a criminal offense, or persons whose primary reason for
placement is substance or alcohol abuse or for treatment of communicable
disease.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE - LARGE. A community residence serving nine to 15
persons with handicaps.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE - SMALL. A community residence serving eight or fewer
persons with handicaps in family-like atmosphere.
   CONFORMING. In compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   CONVENIENCE SHOP. Any small retail commercial or service establishment
offering goods/ services.
   DAY CARE CENTER. See NURSERY SCHOOL.
   DECK. An open porch which has no roof, is generally open on the sides, is
above ground level, and its intended use is for leisure enjoyment.
   DETACHED. As applied to buildings, DETACHED means surrounded by yards on the
same lot as the building.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
   DISTRICT ZONING. A portion of the territory of this municipality wherein
certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots and uses under the terms of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT OR REFRESHMENT STAND.
      (1)   An establishment principally used for the sale of fast order food
for consumption off the premises or in parked cars on the premises.
      (2)   FAST ORDER FOOD means food that is:
         (a)   Primarily intended for immediate consumption;
         (b)   Available after a short waiting time; and
         (c)   Packaged or presented in such a manner that it can be readily
eaten outside the premises where it is sold.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or
off-street parking area.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as living
quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels and other
accommodations for the transient public. Modular dwellings on permanent
foundations shall be treated in the same manner as conventionally constructed
dwellings. (See definition for MODULAR AND PERMANENT FOUNDATION.)
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing one dwelling unit
and intended for the occupancy of one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by one
family. A DWELLING UNIT always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
   EASEMENT. A right to use another person’s real property for certain limited
purposes.
   ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
   ERECT. Build, construct.
   ESSENTIAL GOVERNMENTAL OR PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES. The erection,
replacement, construction, alteration or maintenance by public utilities or
governmental departments, of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam,
water transmission or distribution systems, collection, supply or disposal
systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits,
cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and
other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith, but not
including buildings.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Either of the following:
      (1)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
      (2)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building such that:
         (a)   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
         (b)   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of
the building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entry
way that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
   EXISTING. Existing, constructed or in operation, on the effective date of
this chapter.
   EXTEND. To increase the amount of floor area or land area devoted to an
existing use.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   A single individual doing his or her own cooking and living upon
the premises as a separate housekeeping unit;
      (2)   A collective body of persons doing their own cooking and living
together upon the premises as a separate housekeeping unit in a domestic
relationship based upon birth, marriage, adoption or employment as domestic
servants; or
      (c)   A group of not more than three unrelated persons doing their own
cooking and living together on the premises as a separate housekeeping unit
pursuant to a mutual housekeeping agreement (not including a group occupying a
boarding or rooming house, club, fraternity or hotel).
   FARMHOUSE. A detached dwelling on a tract of land of not less than ten
acres, and occupied by a family whose income is primarily derived from
agricultural activities conducted on the premises.
   FILLING STATION. See SERVICE STATION.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. As used in determining floor/area ratios and parking
requirements, the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
center of the common walls of attached buildings. GROSS FLOOR AREA includes all
of the following: basement floors; attic floor space; halls, closets,
stairwells; space devoted to mechanical equipment; enclosed porches.
   FREIGHT TERMINAL. As applied to motor carriers subject to 625 ILCS 18c-1101
et seq., a station for commercial motor vehicles wherein said motor trucks are
stored, repaired or parked.
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot.
   GARAGE. A structure designed and primarily used for the storage of motor
vehicles, whether free of charge or for compensation.
   GOVERNMENT. The act or process of administering public policy in a political
unit; a political jurisdiction, the office or function thereof.
   GROUP HOME. See COMMUNITY RESIDENCE.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business, profession or occupation conducted for gain
or support entirely within a dwelling or on residential premises in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. (See § 155.236.)
   HOSPITAL. An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation
of facilities around-the-clock for the diagnosis, treatment or care for members
of the general public suffering from disease, injury or other abnormal physical
conditions. The term HOSPITAL as used in this chapter does not include
institutions operating solely for the treatment of insane persons, drug addicts
and alcoholics, nor does it include convalescent or nursing homes.
   HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations designed for use
by travelers or temporary guests. Facilities provided may include a general
kitchen, maid service, desk service, meeting rooms, restaurants, cocktail
lounges and similar ancillary uses, but not cooking facilities in guest rooms.
   IMMOBILIZE. As applied to a mobile home, IMMOBILIZE means to remove the
wheels, tongue and hitch and place on a permanent foundation.
   INTENSIFY. To increase the level or degree of.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way (generally
streets) meet.
   JUNK YARD. An open area of land and any accessory structures thereon that
are used for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing,
disassembling or handling waste or scrap materials. Such scrap materials
include vehicles, machinery and equipment not in operable condition or parts
thereof, and metals, glass, paper, plastics, rags and rubber tires. A lot on
which three or more inoperable vehicles are stored shall be deemed a JUNK YARD.
A JUNK YARD includes an automobile wrecking yard.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises or portion thereof on which more than
three dogs, cats or other household domestic animals, over four months of age,
are kept or on which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred
or cared for in return for remuneration or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   LANDSCAPE FENCE. A non-obstructive fence, no greater than four feet in
height, of approved design and materials. Picket, split-rail and wrought iron
fences are acceptable within this definition. Examples of unacceptable fence
types include privacy and welded wire.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space used for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading, or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A tract of land used or developed as a unit, under single ownership or
under single control. A LOT may or may not coincide with a LOT OF RECORD.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot boundary abutting the street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line. The REAR LOT LINE on corner lots shall
be defined as the line most distant and most nearly parallel to either of the
front lot lines as defined elsewhere in these definitions.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded or registered with the County Recorder of Deeds, in accordance with
state law.
   LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot
size and/or bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure. A
LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE goes with the property.
   LOT SIZE REQUIREMENT. Refers to the lot area, width and depth requirements
of the applicable district.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured at right angles to the depth; or the same distance measured at a point
midway between the front lot line and the rear lot line; or at the rear line of
the required front yard (building lines), especially on irregularly shaped
lots.
   MAINTENANCE. The routine upkeep of a structure, premises or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep a structure in sound condition.
   MINI-WAREHOUSES. A building, or part of one, for the storage of goods,
merchandise and the like for rent to individuals or businesses for a monthly
fee.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-fabricated single-family home built on a permanent
chassis that consists of wheel, undercarriage and towing hitch assemblies. The
average length of the MOBILE HOME (excluding garages, carports, porches or
attachments) is in excess of three times its average width. MOBILE HOMES shall
have a minimum of 900 square feet of floor area and shall contain a complete
kitchen and sanitary facilities. MOBILE HOMES shall meet HUD Federal Mobile
Home Construction and Safety Standards.
(210 ILCS 115/2.10.)
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
(210 ILCS 115/2.3.)
   MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. Consists of two mobile units joined at the site
into a single home, but kept on their separate chassis for repeated
transportation to a site.
   MOBILE HOME, IMMOBILIZED.
      (1)   Any mobile home resting on a permanent foundation with wheels,
tongue and hitch permanently removed.
      (2)   The Village Board establishes the following criteria to complete
the immobilization of a mobile home.
         (a)   The foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line
so as to attach and become a part of the real estate. Materials such as
concrete, mortared concrete block or mortared brick extending into the ground
below the front line shall satisfy the requirement for a permanent foundation.
         (b)   As an alternative to division (2)(a) above, piers may be used,
extending into the ground below the frost line and sufficient in number to
properly support the mobile home.
         (c)   To complete the immobilization, wheels, tongue and hitch shall
be removed. Axles shall be removed.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home which has self-contained toilet and
bath or shower facilities.
(210 ILCS 115/2.4.)
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. The part of an individual mobile home space or lot beneath
the mobile home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for two or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such MOBILE
HOME PARK. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a mobile home park if they are
maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a
motorized recreational vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a MOBILE
HOME PARK.
(210 ILCS 115/2.5)
   MOBILE HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale and
repair of new or used mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of a mobile home space beneath the mobile home
that includes the concrete slab on which the home is placed and to which it is
anchored.
   MOBILE HOUSING UNIT. Includes all forms of housing units listed in this
section and as regulated in this chapter.
   MOBILE OR PORTABLE MARQUEE. A term used to describe any sign designed to be
moved from place to place, including, but not limited to, signs attached to
wood or metal frames designed to be self-supporting and movable; or paper,
cardboard or canvas signs wrapped around supporting poles.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated single-family home built in one or more
sections. The average width and/or length of the living area (excluding
garages, carports, porches or attachments) of a modular home shall not exceed a
ratio of three to one. All MODULAR HOMES shall be placed in a full perimeter
permanent foundation, extending below the frost depth. All wheels and towing
devices shall be removed. As with all residences, a MODULAR HOME must have a
minimum three-twelfths pitch roof with residential style siding and roofing,
six-inch minimum eave overhang, and shall have a minimum living area of not
less than 900 square feet. MODULAR HOMES shall meet either the National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code) or the Building
Code (BOCA). All structures shall be placed on a permanent foundation in order
that they may be assessed as real estate.
   MOTEL. A motel for motorists, usually with blocks of rooms opening directly
onto a parking area. Also called MOTOR COURT.
   NOISOME AND INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES, CONDITIONS AND OPERATIONS.
      (1)   Creation of unreasonable physical hazard, by fire, explosion,
radiation or other cause, to persons or property;
      (2)   Discharge of any liquid or solid waste into any stream or body of
water or into any public or private disposal system or into the ground, so as
to contaminate any water supply, including underground water supply;
      (3)   Maintenance or storage of any material either indoors or outdoors
so as to cause or to facilitate the breeding of vermin;
      (4)   Emission of smoke, measured at the point of emission, which
constitutes an unreasonable hazard to the health, safety or welfare of any
person(s);
      (5)   Fly ash or dust which can cause damage to the health of persons,
animals or plant life or to other forms of property, or excessive soil,
measured at or beyond the property line of the premises on which the aforesaid
fly ash or dust is created or caused;
      (6)   Creation or causation of an unreasonably offensive odors
discernible at or beyond any property line of the premises on which the
aforesaid odor is created or caused; and
      (7)   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonable reflection or direct
glare, by any process, lighting or reflective material at or beyond any
property line of the premises on which the reflective or direct glare is
created or caused.
   NONCONFORMING. As applied to a lot, structure or use means:
      (1)   Lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter; but
      (2)   Not in compliance with the applicable provisions thereof.
   NUISANCE. Any thing, condition or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life. (See
Chapter 91 of this code of ordinances.)
   NURSERY. A tract of land on which trees, shrubs and other plants are raised
for transplanting and sale, and including any structure in which said
activities are conducted.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. An establishment for the part-time care and/or instruction
(at any time of day) of four or more unrelated children of predominantly pre-
elementary or elementary school age.
   NURSING HOME. A building used as a medical care facility for persons who
need long-term nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive
hospital care.
   OFFICE. Any building, or portion thereof, in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The portion of the master plan which designates land necessary
for public facilities or uses. It shall include streets, alleys, public ways,
parks, playgrounds, school sites and other public grounds and ways for public
service facilities within the whole area included within the official
comprehensive plan. It can be one or more separate geographical or functional
parts or include all or any part of the contiguous, unincorporated area under
the planning jurisdiction of the village.
   OFF-STREET PARKING AREA. Land that is improved and used primarily for the
storage of passenger motor vehicles, free of charge or for compensation. An
OFF-STREET PARKING AREA, depending on the circumstances of its use, may either
a principal use or an accessory use.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. An area at least 20 feet long and ten feet wide
within an off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one
passenger motor vehicle.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district superimposed over one or more standard
(primary) zoning districts or portions thereof for the purpose of controlling
developmental problems caused by such factors as steep slopes, wet soils,
flooding and the like.
   PATIO. An at-grade paved area without any walls usually adjacent to a
building, and which is intended to be used as an outdoor lounging, dining or
entertaining area.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A permanent support for buildings that are constructed
of conventional foundation materials such as concrete or cement blocks. The
foundation footing shall extend below the frost line.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
(210 ILCS 115/2.2)
   PERMITTED USES. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district(s), provided it conforms with all the requirements
applicable to said district(s).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, organization or corporate body.
   PLAN. The geographical and topographical maps, engineering and architectural
drawings and specifications, and other information indicating the location and
nature of a development.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. A residential or commercial development on a
parcel of land in single ownership and consisting of two or more buildings
having any yard, court, parking or loading space in common.
   PORCH. A structure attached to a building to shelter an entrance or to serve
as a semi-enclosed space, usually covered with a roof, generally open-sided,
and usually large enough to allow seating devices.
   PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE. The main structure erected on or the main
use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate) structure
or use.
   PRIVATE STREET. Any street providing access to abutting property that is not
maintained by and dedicated to a unit of government.
   PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Any building owned, operated, constructed or maintained at
the expense of the public or a building which provides a service or function
necessary for the general health, welfare, and convenience of the public.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly-owned open area, including, but not limited
to the following: parks; playgrounds; forest preserves; beaches; waterways;
parkways; and streets.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES. Utilities which are either government-owned or owned by an
established firm serving a wide geographical area and/or a substantial number
of persons.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES. Facilities providing those services used for or in
connection with the production, storage, transmission, sale, delivery or
furnishing of heat, cold, power, electricity, water or light except when used
solely for communications purposes. PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES does not mean and
shall not include facilities designed or intended to be used for the
transmission of telephone messages or any other form of telecommunications.
   QUICK SHOP. Any small retail commercial or service establishment offering
goods/services primarily to the residents of a particular multi-family complex,
mobile home park or similar development. No liquor or gasoline shall be sold in
this shop.
   RECONSTRUCT. As applied to nonconforming structures, RECONSTRUCT means to
rebuild after partial destruction.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK. See CAMPING TRAILER PARK.
   REFUSE. Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial
wastes.
   RELOCATE. To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
   REPAIR. To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
   RETAIL. Refers to the sale of goods and services directly to the consumer
rather than to another business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the village or to another unit of government for streets and
alleys.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A tract of open land used for the permanent disposal of
refuse in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   SATELLITE DISH. Any parabolic/dish-type apparatus, external to or attached
to the exterior of a building or structure, capable of receiving, for the
benefit of the principal use, television or radio signals. SATELLITE DISHES are
considered an accessory use.
   SCREENING. Trees, shrubs, walls, solid fences and the like used as a means
of view and noise control.
   SEMI-FINISHED MATERIALS. Materials which have been sufficiently processed at
heavy industrial facilities so that they are no longer in their raw state, but
are readily usable by light industry for assembly or manufacture into consumer
goods.
   SERVICE STATION. A building and premises or portion thereof designed and
used for the retail sale of gasoline or other automotive fuel, oil and
automotive parts, supplies and accessories. A SERVICE STATION may include
facilities for washing vehicles and for making minor automotive repairs.
   SERVICE USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment where services are
provided for remuneration either to individuals or to other firms.
   SETBACK. The distance between the front lot line and the building line; or
between a side or rear lot line and the side of the structure which faces such
lot line; or between the appropriate lot line and the nearest boundary of the
area of operation which is approximately parallel to such lot line.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure or part thereof used to
advertise, identify, display or attract attention to a person, establishment,
product, service or event by any means including words, letters, figures,
designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illuminations and the like. The term SIGN
includes, but is not limited to, every projecting sign, freestanding sign,
awning, canopy, marquee sign, changeable copy sign, illuminated sign, moving
sign, temporary sign, portable sign or other display whether affixed to a
building or erected elsewhere on the premises. The term SIGN excludes features
of a building which are an integral part of the building’s design (e.g., the
“castle-look” of a White Castle restaurant).
   SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter enclosing
the extreme limits of the message and the background thereof, calculated in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE. The maximum total sign area of all signs that an
establishment is permitted to display.
   SIGN CANOPY/MARQUEE. Any sign affixed to, painted on, or suspended from an
awning, canopy, marquee or similar overhang.
   SIGN, FLUSH-MOUNTED. Any sign attached to or erected against a wall of a
structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately parallel
to the plane of the wall and not projecting more than 18 inches. A FLUSH-
MOUNTED SIGN displays only messages associated with the building to which said
sign is attached.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces placed in or upon the ground; or any sign supported by any structure
erected primarily for the display and support of the sign; provided that a
FREESTANDING SIGN displays only messages associated with the structure to which
it is attached.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is suspended from or supported by a wall,
awning, canopy, marquee and the like, and which is approximately perpendicular
thereto. A PROJECTING SIGN displays only messages associated with the structure
to which it is attached.
   SKIRTING. The covering affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a
mobile home to conceal the underside thereof.
   SPECIAL USE. A use that has unusual operational, physical or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. SPECIAL USES commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district, and are allowed only by permit. A
special use permit shall not be transferable.
   STABLE. A structure, situated on the same lot as a dwelling, and designed or
used for housing horses for the private use of occupants of the dwelling, but
not for hire.
   STOOP. A small porch which is usually not covered with a roof and which is
primarily used to provide access to the adjoining building.
   STOP ORDER. A type of corrective action order used by the Administrator to
halt work in progress that is in violation of this chapter.
   STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
   STREET LINE. The street right-of-way line abutting a lot line.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having fixed location on the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES,
but not all STRUCTURES are buildings.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Any structure that is not attached to a permanent
foundation.
   TELECOMMUTING. Working in the home by using a computer terminal or other
terminal connected by a telephone line or by other means to a central office or
central computer.
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and valid, for not more than one year, which allows the erection/
occupation of a temporary structure or the operation of a temporary enterprise.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
   TRAILER. See CAMPING TRAILER.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
   USE VARIANCE. A type of amendment (not a variance) that allows a use in a
district where said use would not be allowed under existing provisions of this
chapter.
   UTILITY SUBSTATION. A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant and the like.
   VACANT. As applied to a lot, means that no structure is situated thereon.
   VACATION RENTAL. A dwelling unit or portion thereof offered for overnight
lodging on a temporary basis to paying guests for a period not to exceed 30
consecutive days to any person other than a member of the owner’s family. These
are often but not always facilitated by digital platforms that assist with
booking and promotional services. These are distinct from traditional bed and
breakfast establishments in that they are often less formal, impermanent, and
target a different market. These are distinct from hotels, motels, and similar
types of lodging.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot size, setbacks
or other bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure.
   WHOLESALE. Refers to the sale of goods or services by one business to
another business.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign visible from the exterior of a building or structure
which is painted directly on the surface of a window or affixed to or suspended
immediately behind the window for the purpose of informing passersby of the
identity of the proprietor or business, or of the product or service which can
be obtained on the premises.
   YARD. Open space that is unobstructed except as specifically permitted in
this chapter and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot line
and the building line.
   YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the
applicable yard extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any point
than the required depth or width of said yard.
   YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot lines and
the rear yard line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard line,
side yard line and side lot line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, ZONING OFFICIAL or ZONING OFFICER. The Zoning
Administrator of this municipality or his or her authorized representative.
   ZONING MAP. The map(s) and any amendments thereto designating zoning
districts. The ZONING MAP is incorporated into this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-2-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 2023-02, passed
2-14-2023)
ZONING GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.035 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to implement this chapter, and to achieve the objectives in §§
155.001 through
155.007, the entire municipality is hereby divided into the following zoning
districts:
District Designation Minimum Area*
District                 Designation Minimum Area*
Agricultural             A-1         3 acres
Single Family Residence  SR-1        5 acres
(Large)
Single Family Residence  SR-2        5 acres
(Small)
Multi-Family Residence   MR-1        5 acres
Mobile Housing           MH-1        3 acres
Central Business         B-1         2 acres
Highway Business         B-2         3 acres
Industrial               I-1         5 acres
*   The “minimum area” requirement (which is intended to prevent spot zoning)
refers to the smallest total area of contiguous parcels that can properly be
given the particular district classification. The minimum area requirement is
not satisfied merely because the acreage of numerous noncontiguous parcels,
when aggregated, happens to equal or exceed the minimum area indicated above.
 
(1999 Code, § 40-3-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.036 MAP; ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The boundaries of the listed zoning districts are hereby established
as shown on the zoning map of this municipality. The zoning map, including all
notations and other information thereon, is hereby made a part of this chapter
by reference. Official copies of the zoning map shall be kept on file in the
office of the Zoning Administrator or other appropriate official.
   (B)   In accordance with state law, the Administrator shall publish the
village’s zoning map not later than March 31 of each year. However, no map
shall be published for any calendar year during which there have been no
changes in zoning districts or regulations.
   (C)   Note: the map shall be published if there are any annexations.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-19
§ 155.037 DETERMINING TERRITORIAL LIMITS.
   In determining with precision what territory is actually included within any
zoning district, the Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   Where a district boundary as indicated on the zoning map approximately
follows the features listed below on the left, the corresponding feature on the
right shall be deemed the district boundary:
 
Centerline of any street, alley or highway Such centerline
Lot line                                   Such lot line
Railroad tracks                            Right-of-way line of such track
 
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is legally vacated, the
zoning districts adjoining each side of such vacated public way shall
automatically extend to the center of such way, and all territory included in
the vacated way shall thereafter be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts.
   (C)   All territory (including bodies of water) that lies within the zoning
jurisdiction of this municipality, but which is not shown on the zoning map as
being located within any district, shall comply with the zoning regulations of
the most restrictive adjoining district.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.038 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Any territory hereafter annexed to the municipality shall automatically be
in the SR-1, Single-Family Residence District until duly changed by an
amendment to this chapter; except if such property is the subject of an
annexation agreement specifying a zoning designation and, except that the
Village Board, with the advice of the Zoning Board, may annex any territory as
any other zoning district or districts herein established if all legal
requirements for zoning the property at the time of the annexation and the
requirements for amending this chapter by the extension of the zoning district
provisions are met. (See §
155.425 for amendments.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 02/14/2006-1,
passed 2-14-2006)
§ 155.039 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Generally. No structure or part thereof shall be erected, used,
occupied, enlarged, altered, relocated or reconstructed except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. Similarly, no lot or part thereof shall be
used, occupied or developed except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Agricultural exemption. The provisions of this chapter shall not be
interpreted or administered so as to restrict the erection, maintenance,
alteration or extension of buildings (including farmhouses) or structures used
or intended to be used for agricultural purposes on agricultural land except
that such buildings or structures shall be required to conform to applicable
setback regulations. Whenever a portion of a tract of land ceases to be used
primarily for agricultural purposes, all pertinent provisions of this chapter
shall apply to that portion.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.040 UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED.
   Whenever any use is not specifically listed as permitted or special within a
particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed prohibited in that
district. However, if the Zoning Board, following consultation with the Zoning
Administrator, finds that the unlisted use is similar to and compatible with
the listed uses, it may make a written ruling to that effect and classify the
use as a use permitted by right. The Board’s decision shall become a permanent
public record.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-6) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 02/14/2006-1,
passed 2–14-2006)
§ 155.041 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this chapter, no
temporary structure shall be used or occupied for any purpose, and no land
shall be used for any temporary enterprise, whether for profit or not-for-
profit, unless a temporary use permit has been obtained.
   (B)   Applications for temporary use permits shall be treated in the same
way as applications for special use permits. A temporary use permit shall be
valid for not more than one year unless it is properly renewed. (See §
155.410.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-7) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.042 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING AND MEETING MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise:
   (A)   Only one principal building or structure shall be permitted on any
residential lot; and
   (B)   No portion of any minimum area, minimum dimensions or minimum yards
required for any lot, structure or use shall be counted to satisfy the minimum
area, dimensions or yards requirements for any other lot, structure or use.
(See §
155.301.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-8) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.043 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts, or has
permanent easement or access to, a public street or a private street.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-9) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.044 FRONT SETBACKS; CORNER/THROUGH LOTS.
   Every lot with multiple frontages (such as corner or through lots) shall
meet the front setback requirements of the district in which it is located on
every side having frontage.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-10) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.045 FRONT SETBACKS IN CERTAIN BUILT-UP AREAS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise, in the Central Business District
and in all residential zoning districts, where lots having 50% or more of the
frontage on one side of a street between intersections (that is, in one block)
are developed with buildings, and the front setbacks of those lots do not
differ by more than ten feet, the minimum required front setback on that block
shall be the average of the existing front setbacks; provided however, that in
any built-up area, no front setback shall be less than 15 feet, nor shall any
front setback greater than 50 feet be required.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-11) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.046 YARD INTRUSIONS.
   To the extent indicated below, the following features of principal buildings
may intrude into yards without thereby violating the minimum setback
requirements:
 
Features                                                    Maximum Intrusions
Balconies, decks, porches                                   4 feet
Canopies, roof overhangs                                    4 feet
Cornices, chimneys, planters or similar architectural       2 feet
features
Fire escapes                                                4 feet
Patios                                                      6 feet
Porches and stoops, if enclosed, unroofed, and at no higher 6 feet
than 2 steps above ground level
 
(1999 Code, § 40-3-12) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.047 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS; NECESSARY APPURTENANCES.
   Chimneys, church spires, parapet walls, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads,
fire towers, water towers, antennas or other necessary appurtenances commonly
constructed above the roof line shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height
limitations for the district in which they are located if they comply with all
other pertinent ordinances of the village.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-13) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.048 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS; INTERSECTIONS.
   On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land bounded by the street
lines and a line joining these street lines at points 30 feet from the point of
intersection, no obstruction, whether natural or human- made, shall intrude
into the air space that is between two and ten feet above the level of the
adjacent street. (See
Figure 1 in Appendix B at the end of this chapter.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-14) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.049 SEWER AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   In all districts, property owners of all buildings and places where people
live, work, or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all sewage
in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Whenever the public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible
(that is, when the distance from the property in question to the nearest public
sewer with available capacity does not exceed 100 feet), all sewage shall be
discharged into such system whether or hot a private sewerage system already
exists or is more convenient.
   (B)   Whenever the public sewerage system is not reasonably accessible, a
private sewerage system shall be installed and used. All private sewerage
systems shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in conformity
with the following requirements:
      (1)   Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, (225 ILCS 225/
1 through 225/23), as amended from time to time;
      (2)   Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Code No. 4.002, promulgated by the
Director of the Illinois Department of Public Health, as amended from time to
time;
      (3)   Pertinent, current regulation issued by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency; and
      (4)   Applicable codes and regulations of the village, particularly the
subdivision code (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances) and the utilities code (Title V of this
code of ordinances).
   (C)   The Administrator shall not issue any certificate of zoning compliance
unless, following consultation with the Village Engineer, he or she is
satisfied that these requirements will be met. (See
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-15) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.050 ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted in a particular zoning
district if such use:
      (1)   Meets the definitions of “accessory use” found in §
155.021;
      (2)   Is accessory to a principal structure or use that is allowed in a
particular zoning district as permitted or special use; and
      (3)   Is in compliance with restrictions set forth in §
155.051.
   (B)   If an accessory structure is attached to a principal structure, it
shall be considered part of such structure. (See definition of “attached” in §
155.021.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-16) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.051 ACCESSORY USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Height. No accessory use shall be higher than 25 feet in any zoning
district; provided, there shall be no height limit on accessory structures
related to agriculture.
   (B)   Schedule. No accessory use in any zoning district shall be located in
any part of any yard (front, side or rear) that is required because of the
setback regulations of such district; as specified in §
155.050(B).
   (C)   Yard coverage. Accessory uses shall not cover more than 30% of a
required rear yard.
   (D)   Use as dwelling. Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is
strictly prohibited throughout the village.
   (E)   Under no circumstance shall a shipping container, semi-trailer
container or any other freestanding storage container be permitted for use as
an accessory use in any residential zoning district.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-17) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 2019-09, passed
5-14-2019)
§ 155.052 AREA BULK REGULATIONS.
   To facilitate public understanding of this chapter, the area-bulk regulation
schedule is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be an integral part of
this chapter and it may be amended in the same manner as any other part of this
chapter. The schedule is found in
Appendix C at the end of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-18) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.053 WIND FARMS AND ELECTRIC-GENERATING WIND DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-13-26, wind farms and electric-generating wind
devices are prohibited within the village's zoning jurisdiction and within the
1.5 mile radius surrounding its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-22, passed 8-11-2020)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 155.065 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DEFINED.
   As used in this subchapter, the term PLANNED DEVELOPMENT or PD means a
development wherein, in accordance with an approved development plan:
   (A)   Common open space is reserved;
   (B)   Various housing types and other structures and uses may be mixed; and/
or
   (C)   Overall average density does not exceed the usual zoning district
limit.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-20) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.066 OBJECTIVES.
   This section authorizes development of planned developments and establishes
procedures in order to achieve the objectives enumerated in §
155.002 and the following objectives:
   (A)   To provide a regulatory mechanism whereby the village can be assured
that upon completion, approved development projects will substantially conform
to the plans or models which constituted the basis for the issuance of the
necessary zoning and subdivision permits;
   (B)   To permit development of a wide variety of housing types and other
structures and uses in a single comprehensively planned project;
   (C)   To preserve the natural topography, scenic features, mature trees and
historic structures existing on sites proposed for development;
   (D)   To encourage innovative site layouts and coordinated architectural
treatment of different housing types and other structures;
   (E)   To ensure the provision of usable, common, open space in planned
developments, and to spur installation of various amenities therein; and
   (F)   To facilitate the economical installation of standard streets, sewers,
utilities and other improvements.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-21) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.067 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS GENERALLY REQUIRED.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this chapter, planned
developments, including all structures and uses therein, shall, at a minimum,
be built in conformity with all applicable codes and ordinances, including this
chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-22) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.068 DISTRICTS WHERE ALLOWED.
   Planned developments may be built in any zoning district, but only upon the
issuance of a special use permit by the Village Board after a hearing before
the Planning and Zoning Commission. (See §
155.407.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-23) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.069 PERMISSIBLE DEVIATION FROM CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The planned development concept is intended to afford both the
developer and the village considerable flexibility in formulating development
proposals. Consequently, to the extent indicated in this section, planned
developments may deviate from generally applicable Code requirements without a
variance.
   (B)   Any proposed deviation not listed below, however, shall require a
variance.
      (1)   Mixed uses. Planned developments may include all types of
residential structures and any other uses approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, provided that in approving such mixed uses, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may attach any conditions necessary to protect the public welfare.
      (2)   Lot and structure requirements. In planned developments, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may approve any reasonable deviation from the
lot and structure requirements of the particular zoning district so long as the
different uses within the PD are appropriately interrelated and property
abutting the PD is adequately protected from any potential adverse impacts of
the development. LOT AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS means minimum individual lot
area, width and depth; minimum setbacks; and maximum structure height.
      (3)   Accessory uses. In PDs, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
allow the developer to disregard the usual restrictions on accessory uses other
than the prohibition against using an accessory structure as a dwelling.
      (4)   Location of parking/loading spaces. By permission of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, off-street parking and loading spaces in PDs need not be
located in accordance with generally applicable requirements. The minimum
number of such spaces, however, shall not be less than the number required as
per §§
155.280 through
155.287.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-24) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.070 PROCEDURES FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Every applicant for planned development approval shall comply with the
procedural requirements of this section.
   (B)   The required procedures are as follows:
      (1)   Filing development plan with the Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   Review of plans by Planning and Zoning Commission, if any;
      (3)   Provision by the developer of adequate assurance for the completion
of required improvements as per the development plan and subdivision
regulations;
      (4)   Recommendation by Planning and Zoning Commission; if any;
      (5)   Public hearing by the Planning and Zoning Commission as per the
requirements of §§
155.345 through
155.353,
155.365 through
155.370,
155.385 through
155.390,
155.405 through
155.410,
155.425 through
155.431;
      (6)   Decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission regarding approval/
rejection of the development plan; and
      (7)   Recording of development plan with the County Recorder of Deeds.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-25) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.071 APPLICATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Every applicant for approval of a development plan shall submit to the
Administrator, in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of information
listed below.
   (A)   Written documents.
      (1)   Legal description of the total site proposed for development;
      (2)   Names and addresses of all owners of property within or adjacent to
the proposed planned development;
      (3)   Statement of the planning objectives to be achieved by the PD
through the particular approach proposed by the applicant, including a
description of the character of the proposed development and the rationale
behind the assumptions and choices made by the applicant;
      (4)   Development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the PD or stages of the PD can be expected to begin and to be
completed;
      (5)   Statement of the applicants intentions with regard to the future
selling or leasing of all or portions of the PD, such as land areas, dwelling
units and the like; and
      (6)   Data indicating:
         (a)   Total number and type of proposed dwelling units;
         (b)   Gross and net acreage of parcel;
         (c)   Acreage of gross and usable open space; and
         (d)   Area of any commercial uses.
   (B)   Graphic materials.
      (1)   Existing site conditions, including contours at ten-foot intervals
and locations of watercourses, floodplains, unique natural features and wooded
areas;
      (2)   Proposed lot lines and plot designs;
      (3)   Proposed location, size in square feet and general appearance of
all existing and proposed buildings (both residential and nonresidential) and
other structures and facilities;
      (4)   Location and size in acres or square feet or all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated or reserved as common open spaces, public parks,
recreational areas, school sites, and similar public and semi-public uses;
      (5)   Existing and proposed vehicular circulation system, including off-
street parking and loading areas and major points of ingress and egress to the
development (notations of proposed ownership-public or private-should be
included where appropriate);
      (6)   Existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system, including its
relationship to the vehicular circulation system and proposed treatments of
points of conflict;
      (7)   Existing and proposed utility systems, including sanitary sewers,
storm sewers and water, electric, gas and telephone lines;
      (8)   General landscape plan indicating the treatment of both private and
common open spaces and the location of required buffer strips;
      (9)   Enough information on land areas adjacent to the proposed PD to
indicate the relationship between the proposed development and existing and
proposed adjacent areas;
      (10)   Any additional information required by the village to evaluate the
character and impact of the proposed PD; and
      (11)   Appropriate seals of the licensed surveyor, engineer or architect.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-26) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.072 CRITERIA CONSIDERED.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall compile a written report
which either accepts or rejects the development plan.
   (B)   In making its decision, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
consider the following criteria:
      (1)   The extent to which the proposed development is consistent with the
comprehensive plan and with the purposes of this chapter and of all other
applicable codes and ordinances;
      (2)   The extent to which the proposed development deviates from the
regulations that are generally applicable to the property (including, but not
limited to, the use, lot and building regulations of the district), and the
apparent merits, if any, of said deviations;
      (3)   Whether the proposed design of the PD makes adequate provisions for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, off-street parking and loading,
separation of residential and commercial uses, open space, recreational
facilities, preservation of natural features, and so forth;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed PD with adjacent properties and
surrounding area; and
      (5)   Any other reasonable criteria that the Planning and Zoning
Commission may devise.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-27) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.073 DECISION BY ZONING BOARD.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not approve any PD unless:
   (A)   The developer has posted a performance bond or deposited funds in
escrow in the amount of the Village Engineer deems sufficient to guarantee the
satisfactory completion of all required improvements;
   (B)   The Village Attorney has stated that all legal instruments
(particularly the restrictive covenants) are satisfactory; and
   (C)   The proposed PD, as evidenced by the development plan, complies with
all applicable codes, regulations and ordinances. (Deviations to the extent
permitted under §
155.072 shall not be deemed as noncomplying.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-28) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.074 CHANGES IN APPROVED PLANS.
   No changes shall be made to any approved PD development plan, except as
follows:
   (A)   Minor changes, if required by engineering or other circumstances not
foreseen at the time the final development plan was approved;
   (B)   All other changes shall require a public hearing before the Planning
and Zoning Commission; and
   (C)   No approved change shall have any effect until it is recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds as an amendment to the recorded copy of the
development plan. (See §§
155.425 through
155.431.)
(1999 Code, § 40-3-29) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.075 FAILURE TO BEGIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If a substantial amount of construction has not begun within the time
stated in the approved construction schedule, the development plan shall lapse
upon written notice to the applicant from the Zoning Administrator and shall be
of no further effect. However, in his or her discretion and for good cause, the
Zoning Administrator may extend for a reasonable time the period for the
beginning of construction.
   (B)   If a final development plan lapses as per this section, the following
shall be applicable:
      (1)   The special use permit shall be automatically revoked;
      (2)   Any zoning permits shall automatically become null and void; and
      (3)   All regulations applicable before the PD was approved shall
automatically be in full effect.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-30) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.076 MUNICIPAL EXEMPTION.
   In conjunction with any existing or proposed development, the village shall
be exempt from all of the provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-31) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
“A-1” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.090 “A-1” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   The “A-1” Agricultural District encompasses areas that are presently
undeveloped or sparsely developed and that, for various reasons, should remain
so for the foreseeable future. Some tracts of land in this district are fertile
and relatively level and best suited for agricultural pursuits. Other tracts in
this district have such poor soils, steep slopes, inadequate natural drainage
and/or other problems, or are simply so distant from existing developed areas
that the provision and maintenance of roads, utilities and storm water drainage
systems would be impractical or burdensomely expensive to the tax-paying
public.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.091 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   In the “A-1” District, only one principal dwelling shall be situated on any
one lot.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.092 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the “A-1” District shall conform to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: three acres;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 150 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 200 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 50 feet;
      (2)   Total for both side yard lines: 25 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: ten feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 50 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 35 feet (does not apply to accessory
agricultural structures).
(1999 Code, § 40-4-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.093 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the “A-1” Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agriculture, including all uses commonly classified as such, provided
the requirements of §
155.241 are met;
   (B)   Cemeteries;
   (C)   Government uses of this municipality;
   (D)   Nurseries, greenhouses, temporary produce stands;
   (E)   Parks and playgrounds;
   (F)   Single-family dwellings (see §§
155.230 through
155.244); and
   (G)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.050.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.094 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with
§§
155.405 through
155.410 in the “A-1” Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agricultural implement sales;
   (B)   Amusement facilities, such as go-cart tracks, archery ranges and the
like;
   (C)   Animal hospitals;
   (D)   Churches and other places of formal worship;
   (E)   Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their chief
activity a service customarily carried on as a business;
   (F)   Golf courses, all sizes and types;
   (G)   Home occupations (see §
155.236);
   (H)   Kennels, commercial;
   (I)   Manufactured homes;
   (J)   Nursing homes, sanitariums;
   (K)   Towers, structures and other facilities designed or intended to be
used for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of distribution
equipment utilized by entities engaged in the transmission of telephone
messages including, but not limited to, cellular, personal communications
services, special mobile radio transmitters and any other personal wireless
service;
   (L)   Travel trailer parks, not including mobile home parks (see §
155.231); and
   (M)   Utility substations.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
“SR-1” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.105 “SR-1” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT (LARGE LOT).
   In the “SR-1” Single-Family Residence District, land is principally used for
or is best suited for detached, single-family dwellings and related
educational, religious and recreational facilities. The regulations for this
district are intended to stabilize and preserve sound existing single-family
neighborhoods, and to promote the development of subdivisions offering a range
of new conventionally constructed single-family housing. Other types of
residences (mobile homes, manufactured mobile homes, duplexes, apartments and
the like) are prohibited uses in this district.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-7) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.106 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   In the “SR-1” District, only one principal building (single-family dwelling)
shall be situated on any one lot.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-8) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.107 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the “SR-1” District shall conform to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 80 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   Total for both side yard lines: 25 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: ten feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 25 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
   (F)   Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit: two spaces;
   (G)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 25%; and
   (H)   Minimum square footage of living area as measured on the outside walls
of the dwelling, excluding attached garages, carports, exterior courtyards,
screened in or other open porches: 900 square feet.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-9) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 02/12/2013-1,
passed 2-12-2013)
§ 155.108 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the “SR-1” Single-Family
Residential District:
   (A)   Agriculture, including all uses commonly classified as such, provided
the requirements of §
155.241 are met;
   (B)   Single-family dwellings;
   (C)   Accessory uses in accordance with §§
155.050 and
155.051; and
   (D)   Government uses of this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-10) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.109 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be allowed by special use permit in
accordance with §§
155.405 through
155.410 in the “SR-1” District:
   (A)   Churches and other places of formal worship;
   (B)   Community residences;
   (C)   Government uses other than those of the municipality;
   (D)   Home occupations (see §
155.236);
   (E)   Modular or manufactured homes (see §
155.021);
   (F)   Schools;
   (G)   Utility substations; and
   (H)   Vacation rentals.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-11) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 2023-02, passed
2-14-2023)
“SR-2” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.120 “SR-2” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT (SMALL LOT).
   The “SR-2” Single-Family Residence District encompasses areas suitable for
single-family dwellings as well as related facilities. The regulations for this
district are intended to stabilize and preserve sound existing subdivision
offering a range of new single-family housing. Other types of residences
(mobile homes, manufactured homes, duplexes, apartments and the like) are
permitted in this district by special use.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-16) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.121 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   In the “SR-2” District, only one principal building (single-family) shall be
situated on any one lot.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-17) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.122 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the “SR-2” District shall conform to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 6,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 40 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   From either side lot line: seven and one-half feet;
      (3)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (4)   From side yard abutting street: 25 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
   (F)   Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit: two spaces;
   (G)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 25%; and
   (H)   Minimum square footage of living area as measured on the outside walls
of the dwelling, excluding attached garages, carports, exterior courtyards,
screened in or other open porches: 900 square feet.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-18) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 02/14/2006-1,
passed 2-14-2006; Ord. 02/12/2013-1, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 155.123 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the “SR-2” Single-Family
Residential District:
   (A)   Agriculture, including all uses commonly classified as such, provided
the requirements of §
155.241 are met;
   (B)   Single-family dwellings;
   (C)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.050; and
   (D)   Government uses of this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-19) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.124 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the “SR-2” District by special use
permit in accordance with §
155.405 through
155.410, to-wit:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast;
   (B)   Churches and other places of formal worship;
   (C)   Community residences, small;
   (D)   Government uses other than those of the municipality;
   (E)   Home occupations (see §
155.236);
   (F)   Modular or manufactured homes (see §
155.021);
   (G)   Schools;
   (H)   Utility substations; and
   (I)   Vacation rentals.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-20) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 2023-02, passed
2-14-2023)
“MR-1” MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.135 “MR-1” MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   The “MR-1” Multiple-Family Residence District is established to stabilize
and conserve existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of single-family
and multiple-family dwellings and to promote the development of comparable new
areas in order to accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential
environment.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-31) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.136 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building in the “MR-1” District shall conform to the
requirements indicated below:
Note: detached single-family and two-family dwellings erected in the “MR-1”
District shall comply with all applicable regulations of the “MR-1” District.
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet, 3,000 square feet per unit,
whichever is greater;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 80 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   For both side yard lines: 25 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: ten feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 25 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
   (F)   Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit: two spaces; and
   (G)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 30%.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-32) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.137 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the “MR-1” Multiple-Family
Residential District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the “SR-1” District, §
155.108;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast;
   (C)   Community residences, small; and
   (D)   Duplex (two-family dwellings).
(1999 Code, § 40-4-33) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.138 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the “MR-1” District by special use
permit in accordance with §
155.405 through
155.410:
   (A)   Any special use in the “SR-1” District; see §
155.109;
   (B)   Community residence, large;
   (C)   Day care center;
   (D)   Multi-family (triplex and the like);
   (E)   Nursing homes; and
   (F)   Utility substations.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-34) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
“MH-1” MOBILE HOUSING DISTRICT
§ 155.150 “MH-1” MOBILE HOUSING DISTRICT.
   The “MH-1” Mobile Housing District is primarily intended to provide areas
suitable for the placement of manufactured homes on individual lots and for the
establishment of mobile home parks. This district is intended to preserve other
residential districts for conventionally constructed single-family dwellings.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-46) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.151 MOBILE HOUSING LOT OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   All manufactured housing or modular units located outside an approved
mobile home park shall be located on property owned by the owner of the housing
unit.
   (B)   All units shall meet the Housing and Urban Development Federal Code
known as the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards or
the Illinois Mobile Home and Manufactured Housing Safety Act. All units shall
meet all local maintenance codes.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-47) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.152 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS, GENERALLY.
   Note: special lot and building requirements are applicable to mobile home
parks; see §
155.155:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 7,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 60 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   Total for both side yard lines: 25 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: ten feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 25 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
   (F)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 25%; and
   (G)   Minimum off-street parking per unit: two spaces.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-48) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.153 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the “MH-1” Mobile Housing District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the “MR-1” District; see §
155.137; and
   (B)   Manufactured homes on individual lots and modular homes, provided said
units conform to all applicable requirements of the revised code; see
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances; see §
155.021 for definition.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-49) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.154 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in the “MH-1” District by
special use permit in accordance with §
155.405 through
155.410:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast;
   (B)   Boarding house;
   (C)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (D)   Convenience stores and quick shops;
   (E)   Government uses other than those of the municipality;
   (F)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements of §
155.236;
   (G)   Mobile home parks in conformity with all applicable requirements of
this chapter;
   (H)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (I)   Nursing homes;
   (J)   Schools; and
   (K)   Utility substations.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-50) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.155 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   No mobile home park shall be established except in conformity with the
requirements of this section.
   (A)   Minimum lot size, setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. No mobile home park shall be located on a tract
less than three acres in area.
      (2)   Minimum dimensions. No mobile home park shall be developed on any
tract that is less than 250 feet in both width or depth.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks. No part of any mobile home or other structure in
any mobile home park shall be situated closer than 25 feet to any boundary line
of the park.
      (4)   Maximum height. No structure in any mobile home park shall be more
than 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Spacing of mobile homes.
      (1)   Every mobile home space shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Minimum area: 7,000 square feet;
         (b)   Minimum width: 60 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum depth: 100 feet.
      (2)   Mobile homes within any park shall be placed so that no part of any
mobile home is closer than:
         (a)   Ten feet to any park street;
         (b)   Twenty-five feet to any boundary line of the park; or
         (c)   Twenty feet to any part of any other mobile home or structure.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-51) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT “B-1”
§ 155.170 DESCRIPTION.
   The “B-1” Central Business District encompasses the concentrated pedestrian-
oriented commercial area of this municipality. Stores and other facilities
providing a wide range of retail goods and services to the general public may
be located within this district.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-63) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.171 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The following use restrictions shall apply.
   (A)   Retail only. Every commercial or service establishment located in this
district shall deal directly with consumers.
   (B)   Processing incidental. Any processing or treatment of goods on any
premises must be clearly incidental to the retail business conducted on such
premises.
   (C)   Unenclosed activities; special use permit. In this district, a special
use permit is required to conduct any commercial, service or storage activities
outside a completely enclosed building.
   (D)   No drive-ins. No commercial or service establishment shall offer goods
or services directly to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles, or sell
food or beverages for consumption on the premises in parked motor vehicles.
Thus, service stations, drive-in restaurants and the like are excluded from
this district.
   (E)   Refuse containers. All refuse generated by any establishment located
within this district shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in
visually-screened areas.
   (F)   Screening. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any
residential district, screening (a wall, solid fence or closely planted
shrubbery) at least six feet high and of sufficient density to completely block
the view from the adjacent residential property shall be installed.
   (H)   Signs. See §§
155.255 through
155.267.
   (I)   Access ways. Any access way (driveway) to any off-street parking lot
or loading berth shall be located at least ten feet from any lot line.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-64) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.172 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the “B-1” District shall conform to the
requirements indicated below:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: none;
   (B)   Minimum lot width: 50 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   Total for both side yard lines: 15 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: five feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 25 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 60 feet; and
   (F)   Off-street parking: see §§
155.280 through
155.287.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-65) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.173 PERMITTED USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of this district (see §
155.171) are observed, the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Auditoriums, meeting rooms and other places of assembly;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast;
   (C)   Boarding house;
   (D)   Clubs and lodges;
   (E)   Commercial establishments, except those listed in §
155.174;
   (F)   Community residence, small;
   (G)   Dwelling units, if located above first story;
   (H)   Government uses of this municipality;
   (I)   Libraries, museums;
   (J)   Offices;
   (K)   Service establishments, except those listed in §
155.174; and
   (L)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.050.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-66) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.174 SPECIAL USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of this district (see §
155.171) are observed, the following uses, may be allowed by special use
permit:
   (A)   Any use that involves commercial, service or storage activities
conducted outside completely enclosed buildings;
   (B)   Any use, such as drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, service
stations and the like that offers goods or services directly to customers
waiting in parked vehicles, or that sells food or beverages for consumption on
the premises in parked motor vehicles;
   (C)   Churches and other places of formal worship;
   (D)   Community residence, large;
   (E)   Dwelling units
   (F)   Governmental uses other than those of this municipality;
   (G)   Medical/dental clinics;
   (H)   Nursing homes;
   (I)   Quick stops; and
   (J)   Utility substations.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-67) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT “B-2”
§ 155.185 DESCRIPTION.
   The “B-2” Highway Business District is intended to accommodate and regulate
strip commercial developments and compatible uses. Since such businesses, both
retail and wholesale, draw their patrons primarily from the motoring public,
they typically require direct access to major streets and large lots for off-
street parking and loading.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-70) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.186 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Repairs indoors. All repair and maintenance services shall be
conducted within completely enclosed structures. Storage areas may be open to
the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls or solid fences at least eight feet
high.
   (B)   Refuse containers. All refuse generated by facilities located within
this district shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in visually-
screened areas.
   (C)   Screening. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any
residential district, screening (a wall, solid fence or closely-planted
shrubbery) at least six feet high and of sufficient density to completely block
the view from the adjacent residential property shall be installed.
   (D)   Parking. See §§
155.280 through
155.287.
   (E)   Signs. See §§
155.255 through
155.267.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-71) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.187 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the “B-2” Highway Business District
shall conform to the requirements indicated below:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at established building line: 125 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 50 feet;
      (2)   Total for both side yard lines: 50 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: 20 feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 50 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 45 feet; and
   (F)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 50%.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-72) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.188 PERMITTED USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of this district (see §
155.186) are observed, the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the “B-1” District;
   (B)   Churches and other places of formal worship:
   (C)   Clubs and lodges;
   (D)   Commercial establishments, any type, including drive-in facilities;
such uses as the following are especially appropriate in this district:
      (1)   Bowling alleys;
      (2)   Furniture and appliance sales;
      (3)   Greenhouses;
      (4)   Lumber and building supplies sales;
      (5)   Miniature golf courses;
      (6)   Manufactured home and recreational vehicles sales; and
      (7)   Motor vehicles sales.
   (E)   Government uses of this municipality;
   (F)   Offices;
   (G)   Service establishments, any type, including drive-in facilities; such
uses as the following are especially appropriate in this district:
      (1)   Animal hospitals;
      (2)   Banks and other financial institutions;
      (3)   Motels;
      (4)   Motor vehicles services;
      (5)   Restaurants; and
      (6)   Service stations (see §
155.233).
   (H)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.050.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-73) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.189 SPECIAL USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of this district are observed, the
following uses may be allowed by special use permit:
   (A)   Freight and bus terminals, and related transportation facilities;
   (B)   Governmental uses other than those of this municipality;
   (C)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives,
flammable gases or liquids, or live animals;
   (D)   Utility substations; see §
155.239; and
   (E)   Warehousing and wholesaling of any goods except explosives, flammable
gases or liquids, or live animals.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-74) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.200 “I-1” INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The “I-1” Industrial District is intended to provide for areas where light
industry, research facilities, warehouses and wholesale businesses may locate
without detriment to the remainder of the community. In these areas, a
satisfactory correlation of factors required by such uses exists or can be
readily achieved.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-76) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.201 USE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Nuisances prohibited. No production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing, repair, sale or storage of goods, materials or equipment shall
unreasonably interfere with the use, occupancy, or enjoyment of neighboring
properties or the community as a whole. Unreasonable interferences include, but
are not limited to, excessive traffic congestion, loud or shrill noises,
excessive emission of smoke, emission of toxic gases, excessive glare and
noxious odors.
   (B)   Activities enclosed. All production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing or repair activities shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings. Storage areas may be open to the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls
or fences (whether solid or chain-link), including gates, at least eight feet
high,
   (C)   Buffer strips. Wherever any industrial use located in this district
abuts any other district, a 20- foot wide view and noise control buffer strip
shall be installed. Such buffer strip shall consist of densely planted
shrubbery that is at least five feet high when planted and that can be expected
to reach a height of ten feet when full grown.
   (D)   Parking. See §§
155.280 through
155.287.
   (E)   Signs. See §§
155.255 through
155.267.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-77) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.202 LOT AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 125 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   From any side lot line: 25 feet;
      (3)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (4)   From side yard abutting street: 50 feet.
   (E)   Maximum structure height: 60 feet; and
   (F)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 40%.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-78) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.203 PERMITTED USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of the “I-1” Industrial District are
observed, the following uses are permitted; see §
155.201:
   (A)   Assembly, manufacturing or processing of any commodity from semi-
finished materials, provided explosives or live animals are not involved;
   (B)   Freight and bus terminals and related mass transportation facilities;
   (C)   Government uses;
   (D)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives, or
flammable gases or liquids;
   (E)   Service stations (see §
155.233);
   (F)   Towers, structures and other facilities designed or intended to be
used for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of distribution
equipment utilized by entities engaged in the transmission of telephone
messages including, but not limited to, cellular, personal communications
services, special mobile radio transmitters and any other personal wireless
service;
   (G)   Warehousing or wholesaling of goods, except explosives, flammable
gases or liquids, or live animals;
   (H)   Utility substations (see §
155.239); and
   (I)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
155.050.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-79) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.204 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted as special uses in this district by
special use permit in accordance with §
155.405 through
155.410, to-wit:
   (A)   Any permitted use in the “B-1” or “B-2” District except living uses
(See §§
155.173 and
155.188);
   (B)   Assembly, manufacturing, processing, warehousing or wholesaling
involving explosives, flammable gases, or liquids, or live animals;
   (C)   Junk yards (see §
155.235); and
   (D)   Research and development facilities involving explosives, or flammable
liquids or gases.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-80) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
§ 155.215 “O-FP” FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The “O-FP” Floodplain Overlay District delineates areas in the
vicinity of watercourses and tributaries in the municipality subject to special
requirements.
   (B)   In the absence of flood protection measures, these areas are subject
to periodic flooding which may result in injury to or loss of life and
property, disruption of private and governmental services, impairment of the
municipal tax base and the need for extraordinary relief measures. The
regulations of this section are intended to restrict permitted development in
floodplains to:
      (1)   Uses which inherently have low flood damage potential; and
      (2)   To other uses allowed in the primary zoning districts provided
appropriate protective measures have been taken.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-84) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.216 PERMITTED AND/OR SPECIAL USES.
   This Overlay District has no effect on the classification, whether
permitted, special or prohibited, of uses in the primary zoning districts.
Rather, this overlay district imposes additional restrictions on both permitted
and special uses.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-85) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.217 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All uses, whether permitted or special, that are located in the area
covered by the “O-FP”, Overlay District shall not only meet all the applicable
requirements of the primary district, but shall also be adequately protected
against flood damage.
   (B)   To assure such protection, the Administrator, following consultation
with technically qualified persons, may require as necessary:
      (1)   Anchorage or addition of weight to structures to resist flotation;
      (2)   Installation of water-tight doors and bulkheads;
      (3)   Use of special paints, membranes, mortars so as to reduce seepage
through walls;
      (4)   Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures or to
relieve external foundation wall flood pressure;
      (5)   Reinforcement of walls to resist rupture or collapse caused by
water pressure or floating debris;
      (6)   Installation of valves or controls on sanitary and storm drains so
that the drains can be closed to prevent backup of sewage or storm runoff into
structures;
      (7)   Location of electrical equipment and appliances above the level of
the regulatory flood elevation;
      (8)   Location of storage facilities for chemicals, explosives, flammable
liquids, toxic substances and the like above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (9)   Filling and earth-moving to raise the level of proposed building
site above the regulatory flood elevation; and/or
      (10)   Any other reasonable flood protection measures.
   (C)   In no case shall the Zoning Administrator approve any proposed flood
protection measure which would result in an increase in the volume or velocity
of floodwater leaving the lot in question.
   (D)   See
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances for the floodplain code.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-86) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
SUPPLEMENTARY ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 155.230 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter establishes lot and structure requirements, design standards
and use limitations for specific, potentially troublesome, structures and uses.
These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific structure
or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit. But if more stringent
regulations are applicable in any particular district, such regulations shall
prevail.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.231 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   The regulations of this section do not apply to travel trailers or
other recreational vehicles parked in a permitted travel-trailer park that
conforms to the requirements of this chapter and the village code.
   (B)   The requirements of divisions (B)(1), (B)(3) and (B)(4) below do not
apply to travel trailers or other recreational vehicles parked on a permitted
recreational vehicle sales lot.
      (1)   Not more than one travel trailer or recreational vehicle shall be
parked on any lot. They shall not be parked on a street.
      (2)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as a
dwelling.
      (3)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as an
office or for any other commercial purpose.
      (4)   Travel trailers or recreational vehicles shall be required to have
setbacks as required for accessory buildings.
      (5)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be parked on
any front yard.
      (6)   No unlicensed mobile home may be located in a travel trailer or
recreational vehicle park.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.232 BUFFER STRIPS, FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   Buffer strips, fences, walls or hedges used for any purpose shall, in all
districts, conform to the following.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a commercial, multi-family or industrial district abuts
a residential district or is across a street, alley or similar obstacle from a
residential district, a buffer strip of landscaping and/or other treatment
shall be required. If a buffer strip is live landscaping, a temporary
artificial screening shall be provided until such time as landscape screening
reaches maturity. Width shall be 20 feet, except that between areas zoned “I”
and the designated zones, the width shall be 30 feet.
      (2)   Where an existing “SR-1” abuts a district requiring a buffer, the
minimum setback from the buffer in that district requiring a buffer shall be
ten feet providing that a street does not come between the districts.
   (B)   No new permanent barbed wire or electrically charged fence less than
eight feet in height shall be erected or maintained anywhere except in
connection with agricultural uses; when the agricultural use abuts a property
line or a public right-of-way, the use of such fencing shall require the
issuance of a special use permit.
   (C)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected on or within
three feet of any alley or public right-of-way; temporary barricades shall
require the written permission of the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected in violation of
the Illinois Drainage Code (70 ILCS 605/2-1 through 605/2-13).
   (E)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall exceed eight feet in height
in any district except the industrial district where the maximum height shall
not exceed ten feet; exemption: planting screen; in addition, in areas near
street intersections, special height restrictions shall be applicable to
fences, walls or other obstructions. (See §
155.048.)
   (F)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected in any front yard
setback area, with the exception of landscape fences specifically approved by
the Zoning Administrator. (See definition of “landscape fence”, §
155.021.)
   (G)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected on or within two
feet of a property line without the mutual consent of the abutting property
owners; in such instances, an applicant for an initial certificate of zoning
compliance shall include on the application a statement to the effect that
abutting property owners are aware of the type and proposed location of the
fence, wall or other obstruction to be erected and have given their written
consent.
   (H)   No fence, wall or other obstruction which completely encloses a lot
shall be erected without the provision of a gate or similar type of moveable
barrier for accessibility.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.233 SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   All gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall be located at
least 25 feet from any street right-of-way line, side-lot line or rear lot
line.
   (B)   Every access way shall be located at least 200 feet from the principal
building of any fire station, school, public library, church, park or
playground, and at least 30 feet from any intersection of public streets.
   (C)   Every device for dispensing or selling milk, ice, soft drinks, snacks
and similar products shall be located within or adjacent to the principal
building.
   (D)   All trash receptacles, except minor receptacles adjacent to the
gasoline pumps, shall be screened from view.
   (E)   Whenever the use of a service station has been discontinued for 12
consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year period, the
Administrator shall order that all underground storage tanks be removed or
filled with material approved by the Fire Chief.
   (F)   A permanent curb of at least four inches in height shall be provided
between the public sidewalk and the gasoline pump island, parallel to and
extending the complete length of the pump island.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.234 NURSING HOMES AND GROUP HOMES.
   (A)   The lot on which any group home is situated shall have a minimum width
and depth of 200 feet, and a minimum area of two acres.
   (B)   The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall have a minimum
width and depth of 200 feet, and a minimum area of one and one-half acres.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.235 JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   No part of any junk yard which includes any lot on which any three or
more inoperable vehicles are stored shall be located closer than 500 feet to
the boundary of any residential district.
   (B)   All vehicles, parts and equipment shall be stored within a completely
enclosed structure or within an area screened by a wall, solid fence or
closely-planted shrubbery at least eight feet high and of sufficient density to
block the view from adjacent property.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-6) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.236 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Limitations on use. A home occupation shall be considered a special
use in any residence district, provided the home occupation is subject to the
following limitations.
      (1)   The use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling or permitted
accessory building and carried on by the inhabitants living there, and no
others.
      (2)   The use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling and dwelling purposes and shall not change the character of use as a
dwelling.
      (3)   The total area used for the home occupation shall not exceed one-
half the floor area of the user’s living unit.
      (4)   There shall be no exterior advertising other than identification of
the home occupation by a sign which shall be attached to the dwelling or the
accessory building and shall not exceed two square feet in area and which shall
not be illuminated.
      (5)   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material or
equipment used as a part of the home occupation.
      (6)   There shall be no offensive noise nor shall there be vibrations,
smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
      (7)   There shall be no storage or use of toxic, explosive or other
dangerous or hazardous materials upon the premises.
      (8)   A home occupation, including studios or rooms for instruction,
shall provide off-street parking area adequate to accommodate needs created by
the home occupation.
      (9)   The use must be in conformance with all valid covenants and
agreements recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds, covering the land
underlying the dwelling.
      (10)   A home occupation permit may be issued for any use allowed by the
zoning code, providing all other criteria for issuance of a home occupation
permit are met. No home occupation permit shall be issued for any other use.
   (B)   Permit required. A home occupation shall not be permitted without a
special use permit being recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approved by the Village Board, which shall determine whether or not the
proposed home occupation complies with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (1)   The applicant for a home occupation permit shall be responsible for
providing a list of surrounding landowners and tenants. (See §
155.407.)
      (2)   A hearing upon the application shall be held in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Activities not covered. No home occupation permit shall be required
for activities such as telecommuting, involving no outside sign, little or no
increase in traffic, and with only occasional visits by members of the public
to the home. As used in this division (C), TELECOMMUTING means working in the
home by using a computer terminal connected by the telephone line to a central
office or central computer.
   (D)   Parking. See §
155.287.
   (E)   Signs. See §
155.264.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-7) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.237 SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The lot on which any school is situated shall have the minimum area
indicated below:
 
Type of School                         Minimum Lot Area
Nursery, day care center               100 square feet of fenced outdoor play
                                       area per child
                                       As required by state law (105 ILCS 5/35-
Other (elementary, junior high, senior 8); normally 4 acres, plus 1 additional
high)                                  acre for every 150 students in excess of
                                       200
 
   (B)   The principal building of any school shall be located at least 25 feet
from all lot lines.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-8) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.238 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Every in-ground swimming pool, whether public or private, shall be
enclosed by a wall or fence at least four feet in height and shall have a gate
that shall be locked when the pool is not in use. An above-the-ground pool,
four feet or higher, need not have a fence with a gate, so long as the ladder
is removed when not in use.
   (B)   No private swimming pool shall be located in any front yard or closer
than ten feet to any side or rear lot line.
   (C)   All lights used to illuminate any swimming pool shall be arranged or
shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the lot lines to the
greatest extent possible.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-9) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.239 UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   Every electrical substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange
facility, sewage treatment plant, water storage facility or similar facility
shall be deemed a special use, and shall conform to the following regulations.
   (A)   Every lot on which any such facility is situated shall meet the
minimum area and dimension requirements of the district in which it is located.
Every part of any such facility shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot
lines, or shall meet the district setback requirements, whichever is greater.
   (B)   In any residential district, the structure housing any such facility
shall be designed and constructed to be compatible with the residential
character of the area.
   (C)   Every such facility shall be screened by close-planted shrubbery at
least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to block the view from
adjacent property. Furthermore, if the Administrator determines that the
facility poses a safety hazard (for example, if there are exposed
transformers), he or she shall require that a secure fence at least eight feet
in height be installed behind the planting screen.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-10) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.240 KENNELS.
   (A)   Kennels shall be permitted only in the A-1 District as a special use.
   (B)   Every kennel shall be located at least 200 feet from the nearest
dwelling, and at least 100 feet from any lot line.
   (C)   The lot on which any kennel is situated shall have a minimum area of
three acres. (See
Chapter 90 of this code of ordinances.)
(1999 Code, § 40-5-11) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.241 AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Farm animals. No barn, stable, shed or other structure intended to
shelter farm animals shall be erected closer than 300 feet to any existing
dwelling, or closer than 200 feet to any lot line of residential property,
whichever distance is greater. Similarly, fences shall be erected or other
means shall be taken to prevent farm animals from approaching closer than 300
feet to any existing dwelling or closer than 200 feet to any lot line or
residential property, whichever distance is greater.
   (B)   Farm equipment/commodities. No agricultural equipment or commodities
(including, but not limited to, baled crops, fertilizer, pesticides/herbicides)
shall be stored outdoors closer than 300 feet to any existing dwelling or
closer than 200 feet to any lot line of residential property, whichever
distance is greater. If said equipment/commodities are stored within a
completely enclosed structure, said structure shall be located at least 100
feet from any lot line of residential property.
   (C)   Barbed wire/electrical fences. See §
155.232(B).
(1999 Code, § 40-5-12) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.242 LIGHTING CONTROLS.
   Any light used for the illumination of signs, swimming pools or for any
other purpose shall be arranged so as to confine the direct light rays away
from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision of passing
motorist.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-13) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.243 PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   In any district where municipally owned or other publicly owned buildings
are permitted, the following additional requirements shall be met.
   (A)   In any residential or conservation district, all municipal or other
publicly owned buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from all property
lines.
   (B)   In any residential, conservation or business district, there shall be
no permanent storage of heavy construction or maintenance equipment (such as
excavating, road building or hauling equipment), unless in an enclosed building
or enclosed within a solid wall or fence at least six feet in height. Such
storage areas, maintenance yards or storage warehouses shall be located at
least 25 feet from any front or side property line.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-14) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.244 CHURCHES AND HOUSES OF FORMAL WORSHIP.
   The following restrictions shall apply to churches no matter if they are
permitted uses or special uses.
   (A)   Lot size. The minimum size of the lot or tract shall not be less than
two acres and have a minimum frontage on a public street and at the building
line of 150 feet.
   (B)   Commercial and residential uses. No part of a church or building for
religious worship or accessory building shall be used for commercial or
residential purposes, except that one parsonage may be permitted on the same
lot or tract provided the parsonage is located no more than 75 feet from the
principal building for religious worship.
   (C)   Property lines. Each principal building shall be located at least 25
feet from all property lines, and shall meet all other applicable requirements
of the zoning code.
   (D)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall meet all applicable
requirements of the zone district.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses and functions shall be
directly related to and an integral part of the customary religious worship
activities except as otherwise provided by applicable provisions.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-15) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 805 ILCS 110/0.01 et seq.
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.255 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   Any sign not expressly permitted in this subchapter shall be deemed
prohibited.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.256 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE.
   Within the limitations and restrictions as further provided in this
subchapter, the total area of all signs which an establishment is permitted to
display shall be computed according to the following formula: one square foot
of sign area per one foot of street frontage or two square feet of sign for
each lineal foot of the front width of the business; provided, however, that no
establishment in any district shall display more than 300 square feet of sign
on any street front.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.257 DEFINITION OF SIGN AREA.
   As used in this subchapter, the term SIGN AREA means the area of the one
imaginary square or rectangle which would completely enclose all the letters,
parts or symbols of a sign.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.258 SPECIAL SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this subchapter, if an
establishment has frontage on two or more streets, each side having such
frontage shall be considered separately for purposes of determining compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter. However, the area allowance for signs
shall not be aggregated so as to permit such establishment to display on any
one frontage a greater area of signs than would be permitted by application of
the formula set forth above.
   (B)   The side of an establishment adjacent to an off-street parking area
shall not be deemed frontage unless the establishment has no other frontage.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.259 SIGNS TO BE NON-HAZARDOUS, WELL-MAINTAINED.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free access or egress from any door, window, fire escape or driveway.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner that it
interferes with, obstructs the view of or is likely to be confused with any
authorized traffic-control device.
   (C)   Every sign shall be designed and constructed in conformity with any
applicable provisions of the adopted building code, if any.
   (D)   Every sign and appurtenance shall be maintained in a neat and
attractive condition by its owner. The sign supports shall be kept painted to
prevent rust or deterioration.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.260 ILLUMINATION.
   Illumination of signs is permitted, subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   No sign shall employ red, yellow or green lights in such a manner as
to confuse or interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No sign other than those providing time and temperature information
shall have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights or any other illuminating
device which has a changing light intensity, brightness, or color; provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to any message on any
electronically-operated, changeable sign.
   (C)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be shaded, shielded or
directed so that it creates neither a nuisance to adjacent property nor a
traffic hazard.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-6) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.261 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   A NONCONFORMING SIGN means any lawfully erected sign or billboard that does
not conform to one or more provisions of this subchapter or any amendment
thereto.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-7) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.262 RESTRICTIONS.
   Any nonconforming sign as defined in §
155.261 that does not pose an imminent peril to life or property may lawfully
remain subject to all the restrictions on the enlargement, alteration or
relocation, or reconstruction of nonconforming structures set forth in §§
155.300 through
155.305; provided as follows:
   (A)   Merely changing the message displayed on a nonconforming sign shall
not be construed as a prohibited alteration; and
   (B)   Whenever any sign is nonconforming solely because it is appurtenant to
a nonconforming commercial/industrial use located in the agricultural district
or in any residential district, said sign shall be treated in the same manner
as it would be if it were appurtenant to a commercial/industrial use located in
any business district or in the industrial district.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-8) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.263 STRICTLY PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Except as specifically noted otherwise, henceforth, the following signs and
street graphics are strictly prohibited throughout the village:
   (A)   Mobile/portable marquees, except that they may be permitted as a
temporary sign;
   (B)   Signs attached to trees, fences or public utility poles, other than
warning signs posted by government officials or public utilities;
   (C)   Defunct signs, including the posts or other supports therefor that
advertise or identify an activity, business, product, or service no longer
conducted on the premises where such sign is located; and
   (D)   Roof-mounted signs, that project or protrude above the highest point
of the roof. (See §
155.265.)
(1999 Code, § 40-6-9) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.264 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ANY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any sign or other street graphic enumerated below that complies with
the indicated requirements is permitted in any district of the village.
   (B)   Such signs or street graphics shall not be debited against the
displaying establishment’s sign area allowance; see §
155.256:
      (1)   Construction signs identifying the architects, engineers,
contractors and other individuals or firms involved with the construction, and/
or announcing the character or purpose of the building, but not advertising any
product. Such signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area, shall be confined
to the site of the construction, and shall be removed within 14 days after the
intended use of the project has begun;
      (2)   Real estate signs, indicating the sale, rental or lease of the
premises on which they are located. Such signs on residential property shall
not exceed six square feet; on other property, such signs shall not exceed 16
square feet. Not more than one real estate sign per street front shall be
erected on any lot. Such signs shall be removed within seven days of the sale,
rental or lease;
      (3)   Political signs, announcing candidates seeking public/political
office and/or political issues and other pertinent information. In any
agricultural or residential district, political signs shall not exceed eight
square feet; in other districts, such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet.
Political signs shall be removed within seven days after the election to which
they pertain, by the party responsible for their erection;
      (4)   Garage sale signs, advertising a garage or yard sale to be held on
private residential property; such signs shall not exceed four square feet, and
shall not be posted for longer than five days;
      (5)   Public interest signs and street banners, publicizing a charitable
or nonprofit event of general public interest; in the agricultural district,
and in any residential district, public interest signs shall not exceed 32
square feet. Public interest signs and street banners shall be permitted only
for 60 days before and seven days after the event;
      (6)   Governmental, public and directional signs, such as traffic-control
signs; railroad crossing signs; legal notices; signs indicating the location of
underground cables; no trespassing signs; no parking signs; signs indicating
the entrances and exits of parking lots; signs indicating the location of
public telephones; restrooms, and so forth;
      (7)   Institutional signs identifying a public, charitable or religious
institution; such signs shall be located on the premises of such institution,
shall not obstruct the vision of motorists, and shall not exceed 24 square
feet;
      (8)   Integral signs carved into stone or inlaid so as to become part of
the building, and containing such information as date of erection, name of
building and memorial tributes;
      (9)   Home occupation signs, identifying only the name and occupation of
the residents; home occupation signs shall not be illuminated, and shall not
exceed two square feet;
      (10)   Subdivision entrance signs, identifying a residential subdivision
or apartment complex: such signs shall contain no commercial advertising, and
shall not exceed 20 square feet;
      (11)   Permanent house numbers and/or permanent name of occupant signs
located on the lot to which the sign applies: such signs shall not exceed two
square feet for single-family dwelling, nor six square feet for multiple-family
dwellings; and
      (12)   Signs located in the interior of any building or within an
enclosed lobby or court of any building or group of buildings, provided such
signs are designed and located to be viewed exclusively by the patrons or
residents of such buildings.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-10) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.265 AGRICULTURAL; RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No sign other than those listed in §
155.264 shall be erected in the agricultural district or in any residential
district.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-11) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.266 BUSINESS; INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No establishment located in any business district or in the industrial
district shall display on any street front a total area of sign in excess of
the allowance derived by application of the formula set forth in §§
155.256 and
155.264.
   (B)   Additionally, signs in any business district or in the industrial
district shall conform to the requirements indicated in the divisions below.
      (1)   Flush-mounted signs. No flush-mounted (wall) sign shall:
         (a)   Project more than 18 inches from the wall or surface to which it
is attached; or
         (b)   Extend above the roof line of the building to which it is
attached.
      (2)   Window signs. Signs permanently mounted in display windows shall
not be debited against the sign, area allowance of the particular
establishment.
      (3)   Projecting signs. No establishment shall display more than one
projecting sign on any street front. No projecting sign shall:
         (a)   Project above the roof line of the building to which it is
attached;
         (b)   Extend below a point eight feet above the ground or pavement;
         (c)   Project over a driveway or beyond the curbline of any public
street;
         (d)   Project more than four feet from the building to which it is
attached; or
         (e)   Extend to a point above 12 feet.
      (4)   Canopy or marquee signs. Signs mounted flush on any canopy or
marquee shall be considered flush-mounted (wall) signs, and shall meet the
requirements of division (B)(1) above. Signs suspended beneath a canopy or
marquee shall be considered projecting signs, and shall meet the requirements
of division (B)(3) above.
      (5)   Freestanding signs. No establishment shall display more than one
freestanding sign on any street front. Freestanding signs, whether mounted on
the ground or post-mounted, shall comply with the following regulations.
         (a)   No part of any freestanding sign shall intrude into any public
right-of-way. No part of any freestanding sign that extends below a point ten
feet above the ground or pavement shall be located closer than ten feet from
the public right-of-way line.
         (b)   The area of any freestanding sign, calculated in accordance with
§
155.256 shall not exceed 100 square feet.
         (c)   When attached to its structural supports, no part of any
freestanding sign shall extend more than 20 feet above the ground or pavement.
         (d)   The length or width of any freestanding sign shall not exceed 12
feet.
      (6)   Billboards. Billboards and other off-premises advertising signs are
strictly prohibited in every district except the industrial district. No
billboard shall:
         (a)   Be stacked on top of another billboard;
         (b)   Be located closer than 25 feet to any lot line or any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Be located closer than 500 feet from any other billboard on the
same side of the roadway;
         (d)   Extend more than 20 feet above the ground or pavement; or
         (e)   Exceed 300 square feet in area.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-12) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.267 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs shall not remain in place for a period of more than 30 days
except when the Zoning Administrator extends the time period for an additional
30 days. Any further time extension shall thereafter be applied for through
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board may grant such time extension as
seems reasonable and necessary in compliance with this subchapter. A permit is
required for all temporary signs. (See §§
155.041 and
155.410.)
(1999 Code, § 40-6-13) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
SUPPLEMENTARY OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 155.280 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with this
subchapter for all structures and uses erected or established after the
effective date of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.281 EXISTING PARKING/LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Existing off-street parking or loading facilities located on the same
lot as the use served shall not be reduced below, or if already less than,
shall not be further reduced below the requirements and standards for similar
new structures or uses.
   (B)   When an existing structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt, additional off-street parking and loading
facilities need not be provided, but parking/loading facilities equivalent to
any maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored.
   (C)   Whenever the use of any structure or premises is intensified through
addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity and the like,
additional parking and loading facilities commensurate with such increase in
use-intensity shall be provided.
   (D)   Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a different
use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required herein for
such new use.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.282 PARKING DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Spaces.
      (1)   Each required parking space shall be at least ten feet wide and 20
feet long, and shall have at least seven feet of vertical clearance. Every
space shall be situated so that no part of any parked vehicle overhangs the
public right-of-way.
      (2)   For multi-family, business and industrial uses, markings shall be
laid and restored as often as necessary to clearly delineate each parking
space.
   (B)   Interior aisles. Aisles within parking lots in business and industrial
districts shall be sufficiently wide to permit safe and efficient vehicular
movement in the aisles, and into and out of parking spaces. Aisles designed for
two-way traffic shall be at least 22 feet wide. One-way aisles designed for 60
degree parking shall be at least 18 feet wide.
   (C)   Access way.
      (1)   Parking areas in the business and industrial districts shall be
designed so that ingress to and egress from a parking space is from an aisle or
driveway, not directly from the public right-of-way.
      (2)   No access way to any parking area shall be located within 30 feet
of any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more
streets. At intersections where traffic-control devices are installed, the
Administrator may increase this requirement as necessary to prevent traffic
hazards.
      (3)   Parking lot access ways (as well as residential driveways) and
public streets shall be aligned to form, as closely as feasible, right angles.
      (4)   The access way to every parking lot located in any business and
industrial zoning district shall be at least 24 feet wide unless two one-way
drives, each 12 feet wide, are provided.
      (5)   The access way to every parking area located in any residential
zoning district shall be at least ten feet wide; but if the parking area
contains more than eight parking spaces or if the access way is longer than 100
feet, access shall be provided either by one two-way drive at least 20 feet
wide or by two one-way drives, each at least ten feet wide.
   (D)   Surfacing. Parking lots shall be graded and improved with a compacted
stone base at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least two inches of
asphaltic concrete or approved comparable material. Parking lots used
exclusively for employees are hereby exempt from these requirements, but shall
be constructed of an approved dustless surface. These requirements shall not
apply to single-family residential. (Note: “oil and chip” is not comparable
material.)
   (E)   Lighting. Any light(s) used to illuminate any parking lot shall be
arranged or shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the lot lines of
the parking lot to the greatest extent possible and in no case, shall the light
(s) shine on or into nearby residences.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.283 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   In order to reduce heat and glare, to minimize blowing of dust and
trash, and to reduce the oppressive visual effects of large open parking areas,
landscaping shall be provided and maintained within every parking lot that
contains 20 or more parking spaces.
   (B)   Parking lots used exclusively for employees are hereby exempt from
these requirements, but shall be constructed of an approved dustless surface.
      (1)   A landscaping plan (either a separate document or an element of a
more inclusive development plan) shall accompany every application for a
certificate of zoning compliance to develop any parking lot that will contain
20 or more parking spaces.
      (2)   The landscaping plan shall include the following information:
         (a)   Proposed type, amount, size and spacing of plantings, including
trees, shrubbery and ground cover;
         (b)   Proposed size, construction materials and drainage of landscaped
islands; and
         (c)   Sketch indicating proposed spatial relationships of landscaped
areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation and pedestrian movement.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.284 LOCATION OF PARKING.
   All off-street parking shall be located in conformity with the following
requirements.
   (A)   For dwellings.
      (1)   Parking spaces accessory to dwellings located in any residential
zoning district shall be located on the same lot as the dwelling. Such parking
spaces shall not be located in any front yard except in the driveway, but may
be located in the side or rear yards. Each parking space accessory to a multi-
family dwelling shall be unobstructed so that no vehicle need be moved in order
to allow another vehicle to enter/exit the parking area.
      (2)   All parking spaces accessory to permitted non-dwelling uses located
in the residential zoning district generally shall be located on the same lot
as the use served. However, by special use permit, such parking facilities may
be located on another parcel within 200 feet of the use served. No commercial
vehicle exceeding one ton cargo capacity shall be parked anywhere in a
residential district (except for normal loading, unloading and service call),
unless a special use permit has been obtained. No vehicle repair work shall be
permitted on any parking lot located in any residential district.
   (B)   Business and industrial districts.
      (1)   Parking spaces accessory to any dwelling located in any business
district shall be located within 200 feet of the dwelling. Parking spaces
accessory to any other conforming use located in any business or industrial
district shall be located within 500 feet of the use served.
      (2)   No parking space accessory to any use located in business or
industrial district shall be located in any residential district except by
special use permit; and in no case shall any such parking areas extend more
than 500 feet into a residential district.
      (3)   In any business or industrial district, off-street parking
facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided collectively if the
total number of spaces so located together is not less than the sum of the
separate requirements for each use, and if all regulations governing location
of parking spaces in relation to the use served are observed.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.285 DESIGN AND LOCATION OF OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   All off-street loading facilities shall conform to the minimum standards
indicated below.
   (A)   Size of space. Every required off-street loading space shall be at
least 12 feet wide and 45 feet long exclusive of aisle and maneuver space, and
shall have vertical clearance of at least 14 feet. In no case shall a vehicle
being loaded or unloaded overhang into the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Access way. Every off-street loading space shall have a safe means of
vehicular access to a street or alley. Such access way shall be at least 12
feet wide.
   (C)   Surfacing. Every off-street loading area shall be improved with a
compacted stone base at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least two
inches of asphaltic concrete or approved comparable material. (No “oil and
chip”.)
   (D)   Buffer strips. No loading space or area for vehicles over two ton
cargo capacity shall be developed closer than 50 feet to the lot line of any
lot located in any residential district or in the agricultural district unless
such space/area is completely enclosed by walls, a solid fence or closely
planted shrubbery at least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to
block the view from residential property.
   (E)   Location. Every off-street loading space shall be located on the same
parcel of land as the use served, and not closer than 50 feet to the
intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more streets, and not on any
required front yard.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-6) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.286 COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED PARKING/LOADING SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required by this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   In computing parking space requirements based on the number of
employees, the maximum number of employees on the premises at any period of the
day shall be used. EMPLOYEE PARKING means one parking space shall be required
per one and one-half employees, unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   In computing parking or loading space requirements on the basis of
building floor area, the gross floor area shall be used.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary to translate gross parking lot area into
number of parking spaces, 350 square feet of gross area shall be deemed one
parking space.
   (D)   If computation of the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this chapter results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or more
shall be counted as one space.
   (E)   No space or portion thereof needed to satisfy the minimum applicable
requirement for number of off-street parking or loading spaces shall be counted
as part of the off-street parking or loading spaces required for another
structure or use.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-7) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.287 NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as indicated in
tabular form below. For any use that is not listed in the table, the same
amount of parking and loading space shall be provided as is required for the
most similar listed use. The Zoning Administrator shall make the determination
of similarity.
Use Parking Spaces Required Loading Spaces Required (if any)
                                                                           Parking       Loading Spaces Required (if
Use                                                                        Spaces        any)
                                                                           Required
Commercial, Office, Service
   Note: all commercial and service uses, unless specifically indicated 1 space per   To 10,000 sq. ft. of floor
otherwise below                                                            300 sq. ft.   area: 1 space
                                                                           of floor area
                                                                                         More than 10,000 sq. ft.: 1
                                                                                         space plus 1 additional
                                                                                         space per 50,000 sq. ft. of
                                                                                         floor area in excess of
                                                                                         10,000 sq. ft.
                                                                           2 spaces per
   Beauty and barber shops                                              chair, plus   Not applicable
                                                                           employee
                                                                           parking
                                                                           4 spaces per
                                                                           bowling lane
                                                                           plus
                                                                           additional
                                                                           spaces as     Not applicable, except as
   Bowling alleys                                                       required      required for affiliated
                                                                           herein for    uses
                                                                           affiliated
                                                                           uses such as
                                                                           restaurants
                                                                           and taverns
   Car wash                                                             3 spaces per  Not applicable
                                                                           wash lane
   Financial institutions                                                            (Both walk-in and drive-in)
      Drive-in                                                       5 spaces per  30,001 to 100,000 sq. ft.:
                                                                           teller window 1 space
                                                                           1 space per
                                                                           300 sq. ft.
      Walk-in                                                        of floor      To 30,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                                                           area, plus    area: none required
                                                                           employee
                                                                           parking
                                                                           1 space per   To 25,000 sq. ft. of floor
   Furniture and appliance stores                                       600 sq. ft.   area: 2 spaces
                                                                           of floor area
                                                                                         More than 25,000 sq. ft. of
                                                                                         floor area: 2 spaces, plus
                                                                                         1 additional space per
                                                                                         25,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                                                                         area in excess of 25,000
                                                                                         sq. ft.
                                                                           1 space per
                                                                           150 sq. ft.
                                                                           of floor area
                                                                           devoted to
                                                                           the home
   Home occupations                                                     occupation in Not applicable
                                                                           addition to
                                                                           the parking
                                                                           requirements
                                                                           for the
                                                                           dwelling
                                                                           1 space per 5
                                                                           seats plus 1
                                                                           space per
                                                                           funeral       1 space per 10,000 sq. ft.
   Mortuaries                                                           vehicle, but  or more of floor area
                                                                           not less than
                                                                           20 spaces per
                                                                           chapel or
                                                                           state room
                                                                           1 space per   To 30,000 sq. ft. of floor
   Offices generally, but not medical/dental offices                    300 sq. ft.   area: none required
                                                                           of floor area
                                                                                         30,001—100,000 sq. ft.: 1
                                                                                         space
                                                                           1 space per
                                                                           200 sq. ft.
                                                                           of floor area
   Offices, medical/dental                                              or 3 spaces   Not applicable
                                                                           per
                                                                           professional,
                                                                           whichever is
                                                                           greater
   Restaurants; refreshment stands                                                   (Both sit-down and drive-
                                                                                         in)
                                                                           1 space per
      Drive-in                                                       25 sq. ft. of
                                                                           floor area
                                                                           1 space per 4 1 space per structure
                                                                           seats or 1    having 10,000 sq. ft. or
                                                                           space per 50  more floor area
      Sit-down                                                       sq. ft. of
                                                                           floor area,
                                                                           whichever is
                                                                           greater
                                                                           2 spaces per
                                                                           service
   Service stations                                                     stall, plus   Not applicable
                                                                           employee
                                                                           parking
                                                                           1 space per
                                                                           600 sq. ft.   To 25,000 sq. ft. of floor
   Vehicle sales (autos, boats, trailers and the like)                  of enclosed   area and open lot area: 2
                                                                           floor area
                                                                           plus:
                                                                           Up to 10,000
                                                                           sq. ft. of
                                                                           open lot area More than 25,000 sq. ft. of
                                                                           devoted to    floor area and open lot
                                                                           sale/display  area: 2 spaces, plus 1
                                                                           of vehicles:  additional space per 25,000
                                                                           1 space per   sq. ft. in excess of 25,000
                                                                           2,500 sq. ft. sq. ft.
                                                                           of open lot
                                                                           area.
                                                                           Above 10,000
                                                                           sq. ft.: 4
                                                                           spaces plus 1
                                                                           additional
                                                                           space per
                                                                           5,000 sq. ft.
                                                                           of open lot
                                                                           area in
                                                                           excess of
                                                                           10,000 sq.
                                                                           ft.
Dwellings, lodgings
   Manufactured home                                                    2 spaces per  Not applicable
                                                                           dwelling unit
   Mobile homes and immobilized homes                                   2 spaces per  Not applicable
                                                                           unit
                                                                           1 space per   1 space if the use has
   Motels, boarding houses                                              lodging unit, 20,000 sq. ft. or more of
                                                                           plus employee floor area
                                                                           parking
   Multi-family dwellings                                               2 spaces per  Not applicable
                                                                           dwelling unit
   Single-family and two-family dwellings                               2 spaces per  Not applicable
                                                                           dwelling unit
Educational, institutional, recreational
                                                                           1 space per 4
   Churches, assembly halls                                             seats in the  Not applicable
                                                                           largest
                                                                           seating area
                                                                           1 space per
   Libraries, museums                                                   500 sq. ft.   On review by the
                                                                           of enclosed   Administrator
                                                                           floor area
                                                                           1 space per 5
                                                                           beds plus 1.5
   Nursing homes                                                        spaces per    To 50,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                                                           employee on   area: l space
                                                                           the major
                                                                           shift
                                                                                         50,001—100,000 sq. ft: 2
                                                                                         spaces
   Schools                                                                            
                                                                           1 space for
                                                                           every 20
                                                                           students that
                                                                           the building  On review by the
      Elementary and junior high                                     is designed   Administrator
                                                                           to
                                                                           accommodate,
                                                                           plus employee
                                                                           parking
                                                                           A space for
                                                                           every 4
                                                                           students that
                                                                           the building  On review by the
      Senior high                                                    is designed   Administrator
                                                                           to
                                                                           accommodate,
                                                                           plus employee
                                                                           parking
Industrial
                                                                           Employee
                                                                           parking of 1
                                                                           space per 1.5
                                                                           employee;
                                                                           plus 1 space
   Any manufacturing, warehousing or other industrial use               per company   To 20,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                                                           vehicle, plus area: l space
                                                                           1 visitor
                                                                           space per 25
                                                                           employees on
                                                                           the major
                                                                           shift
                                                                                         20,001—50,000 sq. ft.: 2
                                                                                         spaces
                                                                                         50,001—90,000 sq. ft.: 3
                                                                                         spaces
                                                                                         Above 90,000 sq. ft.: 3
                                                                                         spaces plus 1 additional
                                                                                         space per 50,000 sq. ft. of
                                                                                         floor area in excess of
                                                                                         90,000 sq. ft.
 
(1999 Code, § 40-7-8) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 155.300 NATURE OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   The requirements imposed by this chapter are designed to guide the use
of land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are
compatible with the predominant character of each of the various districts.
Lots, structures and uses of land or structures that do not conform to the
requirements of the district in which they are located tend to impede
appropriate development.
   (B)   For example, nonconformities are frequently responsible for heavy
traffic on residential streets, the overtaxing of parking facilities, the
creation of nuisances and/or the lowering of property values.
   (C)   The regulations in this subchapter are intended to alleviate such
existing/potential problems by encouraging the gradual elimination of
nonconformities.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.301 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Generally. If the Planning and Zoning Commission approves a variance
for any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of the lot size (area
dimensions) requirements of the district in which it is located, that lot may,
nonetheless, be developed for any use permitted in that district if such vacant
lot:
      (1)   Was recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds prior to
the effective date of this chapter (or pertinent amendment thereto);
      (2)   Has continuously remained in separate ownership from abutting
tracts of land throughout the entire period during which the creation of such
lot was prohibited by the applicable zoning code or other ordinances; and
      (3)   Is at least 40 feet wide.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-2)
   (B)   Non-urban and residential districts. In the agricultural district and
in any residential district, one single-family dwelling and related accessory
structure, but no other use, may be erected on any vacant nonconforming lot of
the type described above provided all the bulk regulations of the particular
district are observed.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-2.1)
   (C)   Business and industrial districts. In the industrial district and in
any business district, any structure permitted in the particular district may
be erected on any vacant nonconforming lot of the type described above if the
bulk requirements of that district are met.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-2.2)
   (D)   Two or more lots in common ownership. If two or more lots or
combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage were of
record and in common ownership on the effective date of this chapter, and if
one or more of those lots does not meet the minimum lot width, depth and area
requirements of the district in which it is district in which it is located,
the land involved shall be considered an undivided parcel. No portion of any
such parcel shall be developed except in compliance with this chapter, nor
shall any such parcel be divided so as to create a lot that does not meet the
requirements of this chapter. (See §
155.042.)
(1999 Code, § 40-8-2.3)
(Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 02/14/2006-1, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 155.302 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any otherwise lawful structure which exists on the effective date of this
chapter, but which could not be erected under the terms of this chapter because
of requirements/restrictions concerning lot size, height, setbacks, or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, may lawfully
remain, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. A nonconforming structure may be maintained by ordinary
repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alterations. An existing nonconforming structure shall
not be enlarged or altered in any way which increases its nonconformity except
by variance.
   (C)   Relocation. A nonconforming structure shall not be moved unless, after
relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district in which it
is situated.
   (D)   Reconstruction.
      (1)   No structure which is destroyed or damaged by any means shall be
reconstructed if the Administrator determines that the cost of such
reconstruction exceeds 50% of the structure’s market value at the time of loss,
unless after reconstruction the structure will conform to all applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located. In the event the
Administrator determines the estimated cost of reconstruction is less than 50%
of the structure’s market value at the time of loss, repairs or reconstruction
shall be permitted, provided such work starts within six months from the date
the damage occurred and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
      (2)   The Administrator may require that the reconstruction cost estimate
be made by a bona fide construction contractor, and that the structure’s market
value at the time of loss be determined by a licensed real estate appraiser.
The owner of the damaged structure shall be responsible for obtaining these
estimates for the Administrator.
      (3)   As an alternative, the market value may be determined by the
Administrator by using the “state equalized assessed value” multiplied by the
number three.
      (4)   The provisions of this division (D) shall not apply to single-
family dwellings.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 02/14/2006-1,
passed 2-14-2006)
§ 155.303 NONCONFORMING USES OCCUPYING A STRUCTURE.
   If any lawful use occupying a structure exists on the effective date of this
chapter, such use may lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. Any structure housing a nonconforming use may be
maintained through ordinary repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alteration, reconstruction, relocation. No structure
housing a nonconforming use shall be enlarged, structurally altered,
reconstructed or relocated unless the use of the structure is changed to a
permitted use.
   (C)   Extension of use. No nonconforming use may be extended to any part(s)
of the structure not intended or designed for such use, nor shall the
nonconforming use be extended to occupy any land outside such structure.
   (D)   Change of use. A nonconforming use occupying a structure may be
changed to a similar use, to a more restrictive use, or to a conforming use.
Such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use.
   (E)   Discontinuance of use. When a nonconforming use of a structure or of a
structure and premises in combination is discontinued for 12 consecutive months
or for 18 months during any three-year period, the nonconforming use shall not
thereafter be resumed. Any discontinuance caused by government action and
without any contributing fault by the nonconforming user shall not be counted
in calculating the length of discontinuance.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.304 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   Any lawful use of land existing on the effective date of this chapter that
would not be permitted under the terms of this chapter may lawfully continue,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Intensification or extension of use. A nonconforming use of land shall
not be intensified, or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied by such use on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation. No nonconforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or
in part, unless such use, upon relocation, will conform to all pertinent
regulations of the district in which it is proposed to be located.
   (C)   Change of use. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been
changed to a more restrictive use or to a conforming use, such use shall not
thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use. If no structural alterations
are made, a nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or more restricted classification.
   (D)   Discontinuance.
      (1)   When a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a period of 12
consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year period, it shall not
thereafter be resumed, and any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
applicable district regulations.
      (2)   Any discontinuance caused by government action and without any
contributing, fault by the owner or operator shall not be counted in
calculating the length of discontinuance.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.305 NONCONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The regulations of this subchapter shall not apply to any change in an
existing structure or to any change in the use of a structure or of land for
which a permit was issued prior to effective date of this chapter or any
pertinent amendment thereto, provided that the work authorized by such permit
is completed within a reasonable time.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-6) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.320 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The office of Zoning Administrator of this municipality is hereby
established. He or she shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Village Board for a term of one year. The Zoning Administrator
shall be the executive head of this office.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.321 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to
diligently administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the
following duties:
      (1)   To review applications pertaining to land, structures and the uses
of land and/or structures;
      (2)   To issue or deny initial and final certificates of zoning
compliance;
      (3)   To supervise inspections of land, structures and the uses of land
and/or structures to determine compliance with this chapter, and where there
are violations, to initiate appropriate action to secure compliance;
      (4)   To receive, file and forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission
all applications for variances and appeals;
      (5)   To receive and file all applications for amendments and special use
permits;
      (6)   To maintain up-to-date records of this chapter including, but not
limited to, district maps, certificates of zoning compliance, special use
permits, variances, interpretative decisions of the Board of Appeals,
amendments and all applications related to any of these matters;
      (7)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the Village Board at least once each year;
      (8)   To cause copies of this chapter (including the district map) and
any amendments thereto to be printed from time to time, as necessary;
      (9)   To provide information to the general public on topics related to
this chapter; and
      (10)   To republish the zoning district map not later than March 31 if
any rezonings or annexations have been approved during the preceding calendar
year. (See §
155.037.)
(1999 Code, § 40-9-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.322 INITIAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   No land shall be developed, no new use or structure shall be established or
erected, and no existing use or structure shall be enlarged, extended, altered,
relocated or reconstructed until an initial certificate of zoning compliance
has been issued. The Administrator shall not issue an initial certificate of
zoning compliance unless he or she determines that the proposed activity
conforms to the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.323 ZONING APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant for an initial certificate of zoning compliance shall
submit to the Administrator, in graphic and/or narrative form, all the items of
information listed below that are applicable to the particular project.
   (B)   (1)   The Administrator shall decide which items are applicable.
(Note: filing fee required in §
155.333.)
      (2)   Items of information:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed lot,
structure or use, if different from division (B)(2)(a) above;
         (c)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner
of operations, number of occupants or employees, and similar matters;
         (d)   Location of the proposed use or structures, and its relationship
to existing adjacent uses or structures;
         (e)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or
use;
         (f)   Existing topography of the site (USGS ten-foot contour data is
acceptable), and proposed finished grade;
         (g)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
         (h)   Height, setbacks and lot coverage of the proposed structures;
         (i)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
         (j)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and
access ways;
         (k)   Identification and location of all existing and proposed
utilities, whether public or private; and/or
         (l)   Location and square footage of existing and proposed signs by
type and class.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.324 DURATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   Initial certificates of zoning compliance shall be valid for 180 days, or
until revoked for failure to abide by a corrective action order. The
Administrator, with Village Board approval, may renew initial certificates of
zoning compliance for successive 180-day periods upon written request, provided
the applicant is making a good faith effort to complete the authorized work.
(See §
155.326.)
(1999 Code, § 40-9-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 2015-15, passed
11-10-2015)
§ 155.325 RELATIONSHIP TO BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit for the erection, enlargement, extension,
alteration or reconstruction of any structure shall be issued until the
applicant for such permit has properly obtained an initial certificate of
zoning compliance pertaining to such work.
   (B)   The village in compliance with the Illinois Architecture Practice Act
of 1989 and effective January 1, 1992 (225 ILCS 305/1 et seq.) requires that
all new construction and structural renovations of buildings used by the
general public, including multiple housing, but excluding one- and two-family
residences, shall require architectural plans with an architect’s seal from a
licensed architect.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-6) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.326 FINAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   No lot or part thereof that has been recorded or developed after the
effective date of this chapter, and no structure or use, or part thereof, that
has been erected, enlarged, altered, relocated or reconstructed after the
effective date of this chapter shall be used, occupied or put into operation
until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued. The Administrator
shall not issue a final certificate of zoning compliance until it has been
determined, by inspection, that the work authorized by the initial certificate
of zoning compliance has been completed in accordance with approved plans.
Failure to obtain a final certificate of zoning compliance shall constitute a
separate violation of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-7) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.327 CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS.
   Whenever the Zoning Administrator finds, by inspection or otherwise, that
any lot, structure or use, or work thereon, is in violation of this chapter, he
or she shall so notify the responsible party, and shall institute appropriate
measures to secure compliance.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-8) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.328 CONTENTS OF ORDER.
   The order to take corrective action shall be in writing and shall include:
   (A)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
   (B)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
   (C)   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
   (D)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
   (E)   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference with
the Administrator if he or she so desires;
   (F)   The date by which an appeal of the correction order must be filed, and
a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
   (G)   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
the imposition of fines.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-9) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.329 SERVICE OF ORDER.
   A corrective action order shall be deemed properly served upon the owner,
occupant or operator of the offending lot, structure, or use if it is:
   (A)   Served upon him or her personally;
   (B)   Sent by certified mail to his or her last known address; or
   (C)   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-10) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.330 STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever any work being done in violation of an initial certificate of
zoning compliance, the Administrator’s corrective action order may state that
the violation be stopped immediately. In such case, the corrective action order
is equivalent to a stop order. (See §
155.328.)
(1999 Code, § 40-9-11) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.331 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever the
Administrator determines that any violation of this chapter poses an imminent
peril to life or property, he or she may institute, without notice or hearing,
any necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-12) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.332 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the
Administrator. The Administrator shall record such complaints, promptly
investigate, and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective action.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-13) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.333 FEES.
   The Board of Trustees establishes the following schedule of fees for the
various permits and procedures listed in this chapter, The fees are intended to
defray the administrative costs connected with the processing/conducting of
such permits or procedures; the fees do not constitute a tax or other revenue-
raising device. All such fees shall be paid in advance by the applicant to the
Village Clerk as follows:
Zoning Board of Appeals Fees
Zoning Board of Appeals Fees
Amendments                              $150
Interpretation of code (appeal)         $150
Special use permit                      $150
Variance permit                         $150
Zoning Occupancy Fees
Accessory building                      $25
Commercial or business structure        $250
Industrial structure                    $500
Miscellaneous permit (i.e. parking lot,
deck, fence, pool, driveway and the     $25
like)
Mobile home park permit                 $500 or $25 per pad whichever is
                                        greater
Mobile home unit/manufactured home/     $150
immobilized
Multi-family dwelling                   $250
Plan development                        $500
Sign permit                             $20
Single-family dwelling                  $150
Structural additions                    $75
 
(1999 Code, § 40-9-14) (Ord. 98-101, passed 1-13-1998; Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed
5-9-2000; Ord. 02/14/2006-1, passed 2-14-2006)
SPECIAL PROCEDURES AND PERMITS
§ 155.345 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby established in accordance with
state law. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hereinafter be referred to
as Board of Appeals.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-1) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3
§ 155.346 MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION.
   The Board of Appeals shall consist of seven members, all of whom shall
reside within the village. Each Board member shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. One of the members so
appointed shall be named as Chairperson at the time of his or her appointment.
The Board of Appeals shall select one of its members to be the Vice-Chairperson
and one the Secretary. Each Board member shall receive compensation as
established by the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-2) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.347 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every member of the Board of Appeals, which was established pursuant
to the former zoning code shall be entitled to serve on the Board of Appeals
established by this section until the date his or her term of office would have
expired if the former zoning code had remained in effect. Any person appointed
to the Board of Appeals on or after the effective date of this chapter shall
hold office for five years from the date of his or her appointment, and until
his or her successor has been selected and qualified.
   (B)   With the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, the Mayor may
remove any member of the Board of Appeals for cause after a public hearing.
Vacancies on the Board of Appeals shall be filled for the unexpired term of the
member whose place has become vacant in the same manner as provided for the
appointment of new members.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-3) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.348 MEETING; QUORUM.
   All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such times as the Board of Appeals may determine. All Board
meetings shall be open to the public. The Board of Appeals may adopt their own
rules of meeting procedures consistent with this chapter and the applicable
Illinois Statutes. The Board of Appeals may select such officers as it deems
necessary. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. Four members of
the Board of Appeals shall constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of at
least four members shall be necessary to authorize any Board of Appeals action.
(See §
155.350 for vote on decisions of Board.)
(1999 Code, § 40-10-4) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.349 RECORDS.
   The Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings and examinations.
These minutes shall indicate the absence of any member, the vote or abstention
of each member on each question, and any official action taken. A copy of every
rule, variance, order or recommendation of the Board of Appeals shall be filed
immediately with the Village Clerk and shall be a public record.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-5) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.350 DECISIONS.
   The concurring vote of four members of the Board of Appeals shall be
necessary to recommend a variance or special use permit or to recommend an
amendment to the Village Board. The recommendation of the Board of Appeals
shall be by written letter and shall contain its findings of fact. A copy shall
be sent to the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-6) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.351 PERIOD OF VALIDITY.
   (A)   No decision by the Village Board granting a variance or special use
permit shall be valid for a period longer than 12 months from the date of such
decision unless:
      (1)   An application for a zoning certificate is obtained within such
period and construction, moving, remodeling or reconstruction is started; or
      (2)   An occupancy certificate is obtained and a use is commenced.
   (B)   However, the Village Board may grant additional extensions of time not
exceeding 180 days, each upon written application made within the initial 12-
month period without further notice or hearing, but said right to so extend
said time shall not include the right to grant additional relief by expanding
the scope of the variation.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-7) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.352 FINALITY OF DECISIONS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   All decisions of the Village Board, shall in all instances be the final
administrative determination and shall be subject to review by a court in the
manner provided by applicable Illinois Compiled Statutes. No applicant shall
apply for the same or identical request for a period of one year unless the
facts and/or request have substantially changed.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-8) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Editor’s note:
   The Village Board will need to pass an ordinance each time it takes action
on a special use permit, variance or amendment.
§ 155.353 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Secretary of the Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Board of
Appeals to serve a until a successor is appointed. The Secretary shall record
the minutes of the Board of Appeal’s proceedings and actions, showing the vote
of each member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact. The Secretary shall perform such other duties as may be assigned
from time to time by the Board of Appeals.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-9) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
APPEALS
§ 155.365 NATURE OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Zoning Administrator in
any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any provision of
this chapter may appeal to the Board of Appeals on a prescribed form. Every
such appeal shall be made and treated in accordance with state law and the
provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-12) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-12
§ 155.366 FILING, RECORD TRANSMITTAL.
   Every appeal shall be made within 45 days of the matter complained of by
filing with the Administrator and the Board of Appeals a written notice
specifying the grounds for appeal. Every appeal shall also be filed with the
Soil and Water Conservation District pursuant to state law. Not more than five
working days after the notice of appeal has been filed, the Administrator shall
transmit to the Board of Appeals all records pertinent to the case.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-13) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-12, 70 ILCS 405/22.02A
§ 155.367 STAY OF FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all further action on the matter being appealed unless the
Administrator certifies to the Board of Appeals after the notice of appeal has
been filed with him or her, that for reasons stated in the certificate, a stay
would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, further action
shall not be stayed unless the Board of Appeals or the circuit court grants a
restraining order for due cause and so notifies the Administrator.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-14) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-12
§ 155.368 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every appeal
within a reasonable time after, the filing of the appeal notice. At the
hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by
duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and briefly
describing the issue to be decided shall be given not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days before the hearing:
      (1)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality;
      (2)   By certified mail to the applicant; and
      (3)   By first-class mail to all owners of property contiguous to any
property affected by the appeal.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-15) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-12
§ 155.369 RECOMMENDATION OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals makes a recommendation to the Village Board on the
appeal within 30 days after the hearing therein. The Board of Appeal’s
recommendation may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend
the decision or order appealed from the extent and in the manner that it deems
appropriate.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-16) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Editor’s note:
   The Board of Appeals is delegated the task of hearing appeals from the
decisions of the Zoning Administrator or other official charged with
enforcement of an ordinance passed pursuant to the Zoning Enabling Act. This
may, for example, entail determining whether there has been a discontinuance of
a nonconforming use. It is important for the applicant to note the appeal
process because of the requirement of exhaustion of administrative remedies
before suit is filed as well as the more obvious reason of using a less
expensive administrative process for correcting a mistake or error which may
have been made by the Zoning Administrator. (See 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-12
§ 155.370 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The Village Board shall act on every appeal at its next regularly
scheduled meeting following submission of the advisory report of the Board of
Appeals. Without further public hearing, the Village Board may approve or
disapprove any appeal by simply majority vote of all the members then holding
office.
   (B)   Such decision shall be binding upon the Zoning Administrator and
observed by him or her. The Zoning Administrator shall be required to
incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in the zoning certificate to
the applicant or appellant whenever a certificate is authorized by the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-17) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
VARIANCES
§ 155.385 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance is a relaxation of the requirements of this chapter that
are applicable to a particular lot or structure.
   (B)   A so-called “use variance” (which would allow a use that is neither
permitted nor special in the district in question) is not a variance, it is an
amendment, and should be granted only as provided for in §
155.425.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-18) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.386 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a variance shall be filed with the Administrator
on a prescribed form. Every variance application shall also be filed with the
Soil and Water Conservation District as per state law. The Administrator shall
promptly transmit said application, together with any device he or she might
wish to offer, to the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The application shall contain sufficient information to allow the
Board of Appeals to make an informed decision and shall include, at a minimum,
the following: (Note: filing fee required.)
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of the structure/use for which the variance is sought;
      (3)   Brief description of adjacent lots, structures and/or uses;
      (4)   Brief description of the problems/circumstances engendering the
variance request;
      (5)   Brief, but specific, explanation of the desired variance;
      (6)   Specific section(s) of this chapter containing the regulations
which, if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem; and
      (7)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may require.
   (C)   See 70 ILCS 405/22.02A.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-19) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.387 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on each variance
request within 60 days after the variance application is submitted to them. At
the hearing any interested party may appear and testify either in person or by
duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed variance shall be given not more than 30 nor less than
15 days before the hearing;
      (1)   By certified mail to the applicant;
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality; and
      (3)   By first-class mail to all owners of property contiguous to the
property affected by the proposed variance.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-20) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-7
§ 155.388 STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall not recommend any variance unless it finds
that the proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of this
chapter, and that the strict application of the district requirements would
result in great practical difficulties of hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   More specifically the Board of Appeals shall not decide upon a
variance unless it determines, based upon the evidence presented to it, that:
      (1)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone;
      (2)   The plight of the owner is due to peculiar circumstances;
      (3)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other property within the district, and therefore, that a
variance would be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment (rezoning); and
      (4)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the area where the premises in question are located, nor materially frustrate
implementation of this municipality’s comprehensive plan.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-21) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-5
§ 155.389 DECISION BY BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be required to submit an advisory
report on all applications within 30 days after the final hearing thereon. A
copy of the Zoning Board’s report shall be transmitted to the applicant or
appellant and to the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Board shall specify the
terms of relief recommended (if any) in one statement and its findings of fact
in another statement. The findings of fact shall clearly indicate the Zoning
Board’s reasons for recommending or denying any requested variance.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-22) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.390 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board shall act on every proposed variance at its next regularly
scheduled meeting following submission of the advisory report of the Board of
Appeals. Without further public hearing, the Village Board may approve or
disapprove any proposed variance by simply majority vote of all the members
then holding office. Such decision shall be binding upon the Zoning
Administrator and observed by him or her. The Administrator shall be required
to incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in the zoning certificate
to the applicant or appellant whenever a certificate is authorized by the
Zoning Board.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-23) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
SPECIAL USES
§ 155.405 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   This chapter divides the village into various districts, and permits in each
district as a matter of right only those uses which are clearly compatible with
one another. Certain other uses, because of their special operational or
physical characteristics, may or may not have a detrimental impact on nearby
permitted uses, depending upon their precise location, manner of operation and
other factors. Such “special uses” require careful case-by-case review, and may
be allowed only after review by the Planning and Zoning Commission to the
Village Board for approval.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-24) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 08/12/14-1,
passed 8-12-2014; Ord. 2019-07, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 155.406 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant for a special use permit shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of information
enumerated below.
   (B)   (1)   The Administrator shall promptly transmit the completed
application, together with any comments or recommendation he or she might have,
to the Board of Appeals for further consideration. (Note: filing fee required
in §
155.333.)
      (2)   Items of information:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed
structure or use, if different from division (B)(2)(a) above;
         (c)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner
of operation, number of occupants or employees and similar matters;
         (d)   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship
to existing uses of structures on adjacent lots;
         (e)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or
use;
         (f)   Existing topography of the site and proposed finished grade;
         (g)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
         (h)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
         (i)   Number and size of the proposed dwelling units, if any;
         (j)   Number and location of proposed parking/loading spaces and
access ways;
         (k)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed
utilities, whether public or private;
         (l)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require; and/or
         (m)   Location of any signs.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-25) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.407 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every special use
permit application within 60 days after the application is submitted to them.
At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person
or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed special use shall be given not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days before the hearing:
      (1)   By certified mail to the applicant;
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality; and
      (3)   By first-class mail to all owners of property contiguous to the
property affected by the proposed special use request.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-26) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-7
§ 155.408 ADVISORY REPORT; FACTORS CONSIDERED.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Board of Appeals shall
prepare an advisory report.
   (B)   In deciding the recommendation the Board of Appeals shall consider the
following factors:
      (1)   Whether the proposed design, location and manner of operation of
the proposed special use will adequately protect the public health, safety and
welfare, and the physical environment;
      (2)   Whether the proposed special use is consistent with this
municipality’s comprehensive plan, if any:
      (3)   The effect the proposed special use would have on the value of
neighboring property and on this municipality’s overall tax base:
      (4)   The effect the proposed special use would have on the public
utilities and on the traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
      (5)   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed special use
(such as schools or hospitals) that require special protection.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-27) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.409 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board shall act on every request for a special use permit at its
next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the advisory report by
the Board of Appeals. Without further public hearing, the Village Board may
approve or disapprove the special use permit by an ordinance passed by simple
majority vote of all members then holding office. In a separate statement
accompanying any such ordinance, the Village Board shall state its findings of
fact, and indicate its reasons for a special use permit.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-28) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1
§ 155.410 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS; PROCEDURE FOR.
   As set forth at §
155.041, requests for temporary use permits shall be treated in the same manner
as requests for special use permits. The Board of Appeals shall issue no
temporary use permit for a period longer than one year but may renew any such
permit as it sees fit.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-29) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.425 AMENDMENTS.
   The Village Board may amend this chapter in accordance with state law and
the provisions of this subchapter. Proposed alterations of district boundaries
or proposed changes in the status of uses (permitted, special, prohibited)
shall be deemed proposed amendments. Amendments may be proposed by the Village
Board, the Board of Appeals, the Plan Commission, the Zoning Administrator or
any party in interest.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-30) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14
§ 155.426 FILING.
   Every proposal to amend this chapter shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on a prescribed form. Every amendment proposal shall also be
filed with the Soil and Water Conservation District pursuant to state law. The
Administrator shall promptly transmit the proposal, together with any comments
or recommendations he or she might wish to make to the Board of Appeals for a
public hearing. (Note: filing fee required.)
(1999 Code, § 40-10-31) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.427 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every amendment
proposal within 60 days after said proposal has been submitted to them. At the
hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by
duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the
nature of the proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30 nor less than
15 days before the hearing:
      (1)   By certified mail to the applicant or person whose property is the
subject of the zoning amendment; and
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-32) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 02/14/2006-1,
passed 2-14-2006)
§ 155.428 ADVISORY REPORT; FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Board of Appeals shall
submit its advisory report to the Village Board. The report shall state the
recommendations of the Board of Appeals regarding adoption of the proposed
amendment and their reasons therefor.
   (B)   If the effect of the proposed amendment would be to, alter district
boundaries or to change the status of any use, the Board of Appeals shall
include in its advisory report findings of fact concerning each of the
following matters:
      (1)   Existing use and zoning of the property in question;
      (2)   Existing uses and zoning of other lots in the vicinity of the
property;
      (3)   Suitability of the property in question for uses already permitted;
      (4)   Suitability of the property in question for the proposed use; and
      (5)   The trend of development in the vicinity of the property in
question, including changes (if any) which may have occurred since that
property was initially zoned or last rezoned.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-33) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.429 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board shall act on every proposed amendment at their next
regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the advisory report of the
Board of Appeals. Without further public hearing, the Village Board may approve
or disapprove any proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Board of
Appeals for further consideration by simple majority vote of all the members
then holding office.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-34) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.430 WHEN TWO-THIRDS MAJORITY VOTE IS REQUIRED.
   The favorable vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Village
Board is required to pass an amendment to this chapter in each of the following
instances:
   (A)   When passage would be contrary to the recommendation of the Board of
Appeals; and
   (B)   When the amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of 20% of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-35) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 155.431 NOTICE TO APPLICANT OF WRITTEN PROTEST.
   In cases of written opposition to an amendment of this chapter as prescribed
in §
155.430, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the protester or
protesters on the applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the
applicant’s attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of such
applicant and attorney shown in the application for the proposed amendment.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-36) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14
SOLAR ENERGY INSTALLATIONS
§ 155.500 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to all solar energy installations in the village.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 155.501 PURPOSE.
   The village has adopted this chapter for the following purposes:
   (A)   Goal. To preserve the health, safety, and welfare of the community by
promoting the safe, effective and efficient use of solar energy systems. The
solar energy standards include:
      (1)   Encouraging the use of local renewable energy resources.
      (2)   Promoting sustainable building design and management practices to
serve current and future generations.
      (3)   Assisting local businesses to lower financial and regulatory risks
and improve their economic, community, and environmental sustainability.
      (4)   Efficiently investing in and managing public infrastructure systems
to support development and growth.
   (B)   Infrastructure. Distributed solar photovoltaic systems will enhance
the reliability and power quality of the power grid and make more efficient use
of village’s electric distribution infrastructure.
   (C)   Local resource. Solar energy is an underused local energy resource and
encouraging the use of solar energy will diversify the community’s energy
supply portfolio and reduce exposure to fiscal risks associated with fossil
fuels.
   (D)   Improve competitive markets. Solar energy systems offer additional
energy choice to consumers and will improve competition in the electricity and
natural gas supply market.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 155.502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRIVOLTAICS. A solar energy system co-located on the same parcel of land as
agricultural production, including crop production, grazing, apiaries, or other
agricultural products or services.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building. BUILDING-INTEGRATED SYSTEMS include, but are not
limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar energy systems that are contained
within roofing materials, windows, skylights, and awnings.
   COMMUNITY-SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A commercial solar energy system that
converts sunlight into electricity for the primary purpose of serving electric
demands off-site from the facility, either retail or wholesale. COMMUNITY-SCALE
SYSTEMS are principal uses and projects typically cover less than 20 acres.
   COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN. A solar energy system that provides retail electric
power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to multiple community members or
businesses residing or located off-site from the location of the solar energy
system. Also referred to as SHARED SOLAR.
   GRID-INTERTIE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system that
is connected to an electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
   GROUND-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted on a rack or pole that rests
or is attached to the ground. GROUND-MOUNTED systems can be either accessory or
principal uses, however principal uses shall be subject to the application for
and the approval of a special use permit.
   LARGE-SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A commercial solar energy system that
converts sunlight into electricity for the primary purpose of wholesale sales
of generated electricity. A LARGE-SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM will have a project
size greater than 20 acres and is the principal land use for the parcel(s) on
which it is located.
   OFF-GRID SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system in which
the circuits energized by the solar energy system are not electrically
connected in any way to electric circuits that are served by an electric
utility company.
   PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that captures solar light
or heat without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring the
energy via a heat exchanger.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
   POLLINATOR-FRIENDLY SOLAR. A solar installation that has been recognized as
a pollinator-friendly installation by the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources, consistent with the Pollinator-Friendly Solar Site Act (525 ILCS 55/
1 et seq.).
   RENEWABLE ENERGY EASEMENT, SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT. An easement that limits
the height or location, or both, of permissible development on the burdened
land in terms of a structure or vegetation, or both, for the purpose of
providing access for the benefited land to wind or sunlight passing over the
burdened land.
   ROOF-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted on a rack that is fastened to or
ballasted on a structure roof. ROOF-MOUNTED systems are accessory to the
principal use.
   ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a roof calculated by the rise over
the run, typically but not exclusively expressed in twelfths such as 3/12, 9/
12, or 12/12.
   SOLAR ACCESS. Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building
through the entire year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights,
for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
   SOLAR CARPORT. A solar energy system of any size that is installed on a
carport structure that is accessory to a parking area, and which may include
electric vehicle supply equipment or energy storage facilities.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy. The collector does not include
frames, supports, or mounting hardware.
   SOLAR DAYLIGHTING. Capturing and directing the visible light spectrum for
use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial lighting,
usually by adding a device or design element to the building envelope.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device, array of devices, or structural design
feature, the purpose of which is to provide for generation or storage of
electricity from sunlight, or the collection, storage and distribution of solar
energy for space heating or cooling, daylight for interior lighting, or water
heating.
   SOLAR HOT AIR SYSTEM. (Also referred to as SOLAR AIR HEAT or SOLAR FURNACE.)
A solar energy system that includes a solar collector to provide direct
supplemental space heating by heating and re-circulating conditioned building
air. The most efficient performance includes a solar collector to preheat air
or supplement building space heating, typically using a vertically mounted
collector on a south-facing wall.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs, including residential domestic hot water and hot water for
commercial processes.
   SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Racking, frames, or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
   SOLAR READY DESIGN. The design and construction of a building that
facilitates and makes feasible the installation of rooftop solar.
   SOLAR RESOURCE. A view of the sun from a specific point on a lot or building
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building, or object for a minimum of
four hours between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Standard time on all
days of the year, and can be measured in annual watts per square meter.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 155.503 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USE.
   Solar energy systems are a permitted accessory use in all zoning districts
where structures of any sort are allowed, subject to certain requirements as
set forth below. Solar carports and associated electric vehicle charging
equipment are a permitted accessory use on surface parking lots in all
districts regardless of the existence of another building. Solar energy systems
that do not meet the following design standards will require a special use
permit. Payment of building or other permit fees may be required prior to
installation.
   (A)   Height. Solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:
      (1)   Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the
maximum allowed height in any zoning district. For purposes of height
measurement, solar energy systems other than building-integrated systems shall
be given an equivalent exception to height standards as building mounted
mechanical devices or equipment.
      (2)   Ground or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 15
feet in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (3)   Solar carports in non-residential districts shall not exceed 20
feet in height.
   (B)   Setback. Solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure
setback for the zoning district and principal land use associated with the lot
on which the system is located, as allowed below:
      (1)   Roof or building-mounted solar energy systems. The collector
surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not
extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is
mounted or built, unless the collector and mounting system has been explicitly
engineered to safely extend beyond the edge, and setback standards are not
violated. Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to
extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure. Solar
collectors mounted on the sides of buildings and serving as awnings are
considered to be building-integrated systems and are regulated as awnings.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems. Ground-mounted solar energy
systems may not extend into the side-yard or rear setback when oriented at
minimum design tilt, except as otherwise allowed for building mechanical
systems.
   (C)   Visibility. Solar energy systems in residential districts shall be
designed to minimize visual impacts from the public right-of-way, as described
in division (C)(l) through (C)(3). Visibility standards do not apply to systems
in non-residential districts, except for historic building or district review
as described in division (F) below.
      (1)   Building integrated photovoltaic solar energy systems. Building
integrated photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of
whether the system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided the
building component in which the system is integrated meets all required
setback, land use, or performance standards for the district in which the
building is located.
      (2)   Aesthetic restrictions. Roof-mounted or ground-mounted solar energy
systems shall not be restricted for aesthetic reasons if the system is not
visible from the closest edge of any public right-of-way other than an alley or
if the system meets the following standards:
         (a)   Roof-mounted systems on pitched roofs that are visible from the
nearest edge of the front right-of-way shall have the same finished pitch as
the roof and be no more than ten inches above the roof.
         (b)   Roof-mounted systems on flat roofs that are visible from the
nearest edge of the front right-of-way shall not be more than five feet above
the finished roof and are exempt from any rooftop equipment or mechanical
system screening.
      (3)   Reflectors. All solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance
solar production shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or
nearby properties.
   (D)   Lot coverage. Ground-mounted systems total collector area shall not
exceed half the building footprint of the principal structure.
      (1)   Ground-mounted systems shall be exempt from lot coverage or
impervious surface standards if the soil under the collector is maintained in
vegetation and not compacted.
      (2)   Ground-mounted systems shall not count toward accessory structure
limitations.
      (3)   Solar carports in non-residential districts are exempt from lot
coverage limitations.
   (E)   Compliance with bulk regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall be
interpreted to waive or suspend any bulk regulations under the village’s zoning
code, which shall include but not be limited to water-run off restrictions,
impermeable surface restrictions, heights restrictions, or other similar
regulations. Any party may seek a variance from the bulk regulations where
allowed under the village’s zoning code.
   (F)   Historic buildings. Solar energy systems on buildings within
designated historic districts must receive approval of the Village Board,
consistent with the standards for solar energy systems on historically
designated buildings published by the U.S. Department of the Interior.
   (G)   Plan approval required. All solar energy systems requiring a building
permit, special use permit, or other permit from the village shall provide a
site plan for review.
      (1)   Plan applications. Plan applications for solar energy systems shall
be accompanied by to-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings. The
drawings must show the location of the system on the building or on the
property for a ground-mounted system, including the property lines.
      (2)   Plan approvals. Applications that meet the design requirements of
this chapter shall be granted administrative approval by the zoning official
and shall not require Planning Commission review. Plan approval does not
indicate compliance with applicable building codes or electric codes.
   (H)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
must have a UL or equivalent listing and solar hot water systems must have an
SRCC rating.
   (I)   Compliance with building codes. All solar energy systems shall meet
approval of local building code officials, consistent with the State of
Illinois building code laws, and solar thermal systems shall comply with HV AC-
related requirements of applicable energy laws.
   (J)   Compliance with the National Electric Code. All photovoltaic systems
shall comply with the National Electric Code, 2014 edition.
   (K)   Compliance with the State Plumbing Code. Solar thermal systems shall
comply with applicable Illinois Plumbing Code requirements.
   (L)   Utility notification. All grid-intertie solar energy systems shall
comply with the interconnection requirements of the electric utility. Off-grid
systems are exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 155.504 PRINCIPAL USES.
   The village encourages the development of commercial or utility scale solar
energy systems where such systems present few land use conflicts with current
and future development patterns. Ground-mounted solar energy systems that are
the principal use on the development lot or lots are special uses in selected
districts as detailed herein. Payment of building or other permit fees may be
required prior to installation.
   (A)   Principal use general standards.
      (1)   Site design.
         (a)   Setbacks. Community- and large-scale solar arrays must meet the
following setbacks:
            1.   Property line setback for buildings or structures in the
district in which the system is located, except as otherwise determined in
division (A)(l)(a)5. below.
            2.   Roadway setback of 150 feet from the ROW centerline of
highways and roads, except as otherwise determined in division (A)(l)(a)5.
below.
            3.   Housing unit setback of 150 feet from any existing dwelling
unit, except as otherwise determined in division (A)(l)(a)5. below.
            4.   Setback distance shall be measured from the edge of the solar
energy system array, excluding security fencing, screening, or berm.
            5.   All setbacks can be reduced by 50% if the array is fully
screened from the setback point of measurement.
         (b)   Screening. Community- and large-scale solar shall be screened
from existing residential dwellings.
            1.   A screening plan shall be submitted that identifies the type
and extent of screening.
            2.   Screening shall not be required along property lines within
the same zoning district, except where the adjoining lot has an existing
residential use.
            3.   The village may require screening where it determines there is
a clear community interest in maintaining a viewshed.
         (c)   Ground cover and buffer areas. The following provisions shall
apply to the clearing of existing vegetation and establishment of vegetated
ground cover. Additional site-specific conditions may apply as required by the
village.
            1.   Large-scale removal of mature trees on the site is
discouraged. The village may set additional restrictions on tree clearing or
require mitigation for cleared trees.
            2.   The project design shall include the installation and
establishment of ground cover meeting the pollinator-friendly standard
consistent with the Pollinator-Friendly Solar Site Act (525 ILCS 55/1 et seq.)
or successor statutes and guidance as set by the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources.
            3.   The applicant shall submit a vegetation management plan
adhering to guidance set forth by the pollinator friendly scorecard published
by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources.
            4.   Pollinator-friendly standards shall be maintained on the site
for the duration of operation, until the site is decommissioned.
            5.   The village may require submittal of an inspection fee at the
time of the initial fee at the time of the initial permit application to
support ongoing inspection of the pollinator friendly ground cover.
            6.   The applicant shall submit a financial guarantee in the form
of a letter of credit, cash deposit or bond in favor of the village equal to
125% of the costs to meet the pollinator friendly standard. The financial
guarantee shall remain in effect until vegetation is sufficiently established.
            7.   Plant material must not have been treated with systemic
insecticides, particularly neonicontinoids.
         (d)   Foundations. A qualified engineer shall certify that the
foundation and design of the solar panel racking and support is within accepted
professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
         (e)   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels and to nearby electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground. Exemptions may be
granted by the village in instances where shallow bedrock, water courses, or
other elements of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury
lines, or distance makes undergrounding infeasible, at the discretion of the
Zoning Administrator.
         (f)   Fencing. Perimeter fencing for the site shall not include barbed
wire or woven wire designs, and shall preferably use wildlife-friendly fencing
standards that include clearance at the bottom. Alternative fencing can be used
if the site is incorporating agrivoltaics.
      (2)   Stormwater and NPDES. Solar farms are subject to the village’s
stormwater management and erosion and sediment control provisions and NPDES
permit requirements. Solar collectors shall not be considered impervious
surfaces if the project complies with ground cover standards, as described in
division A(l)(c) above.
      (3)   Other standards and codes. All solar farms shall be in compliance
with all applicable local, state and federal regulatory codes, including but
not limited to the Illinois Energy Conservation Code, Illinois Accessibility
Code, the village-adopted International Building Code, the Illinois Plumbing
Code, as amended; and the National Electric Code, as amended.
      (4)   Site plan required. The applicant shall submit a detailed site plan
for both existing and proposed conditions, showing locations of all solar
arrays, other structures, property lines, rights-of-way, service roads,
floodplains, wetlands, and other protected natural resources, topography,
electric equipment, and all other characteristics requested by the village. The
site plan should show all zoning districts and overlay districts.
      (5)   Agricultural protection. Solar farms must comply with site
assessment or soil identification standards that are intended to identify
agricultural soils, including submitting an Agricultural Impact Mitigation Plan
(“AIMP”) to the village and the Illinois Department Agriculture, as required by
the Renewable Energy Facilities Agricultural Impact Mitigation Act (505 ILCS
147/1 et seq.), or successor statute. The village may require mitigation for
use of prime soils for solar array placement, including the following:
         (a)   Demonstrating co-location of agricultural uses (agrivoltaics) on
the project site.
         (b)   Using an interim use or time-limited CUP that allows the site to
be returned to agriculture at the end of life of the solar installation.
         (c)   Placing agricultural conservation easements on an equivalent
number of prime soil acres adjacent to or surrounding the project site.
         (d)   Locating the project in wellhead protection area for the purpose
of removing agricultural uses from high-risk recharge areas.
      (6)   Decommissioning. A decommissioning plan shall be prepared and
submitted as part of the Agricultural Impact Mitigation Plan in accordance with
the Renewable Energy Facilities Agricultural Impact Mitigation Act (505 ILCS
147/1 et seq.).
         (a)   Decommissioning of the system must occur in the event the
project is not in use for 12 consecutive months.
         (b)   The plan shall include provisions for removal of all structures
and foundations, restoration of soil and vegetation, and consistency with all
standards of the AIMP.
         (c)   Disposal of structures and/or foundations shall meet the
provisions of the village’s solid waste regulations.
         (d)   Financial assurances shall be provided to the village consistent
with the Illinois Department of Agriculture’s standard agricultural impact
mitigation agreement.
   (B)   Community-scale solar. The village permits the development of
community-scale solar, subject to the following standards and requirements:
      (1)   Rooftop gardens permitted. Rooftop community systems are permitted
in all districts where buildings are permitted.
      (2)   Community-scale uses. Ground-mounted community solar energy systems
must cover no more than ten acres (project boundaries), and are a permitted as
a special use in all non-residential districts. Ground-mounted solar
developments covering more than ten acres shall be considered large-scale
solar.
      (3)   Dimensional standards. All structures must comply with setback and
height standards for the district in which the system is located.
      (4)   Other standards. Ground-mounted systems must comply with all
required standards for structures in tire district in which the system is
located.
   (C)   Large-scale solar. Ground-mounted solar energy arrays that are the
principal use on the lot, designed for providing energy to off-site uses or
export to the wholesale market, are permitted under the following standards:
      (1)   Special use permit. Solar farms are special uses.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 155.505 USE TABLE.
Use Type Residential Agricultural Business Industrial Flood Plain
Use Type               Residential Agricultural Business Industrial Flood Plain
Large-scale solar                  S            S        S          S
Community-scale solar              S            S        S          S
Community solar garden S           S            S        S          S
Accessory use ground-  S           S            S        S          S
mounted solar
Rooftop solar          P           P            P        P          P
Building integrated    P           P            P        P          P
   P = Permitted Use
   S = Special Use
   Bland Cell = Prohibited
 
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 155.506 RESTRICTIONS ON SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS LIMITED.
   Consistent with the Homeowners’ Energy Policy Statement Act (765 ILCS 165/
1 et seq.), no homeowners’ agreement, covenant, common interest community, or
other contract between multiple property owners within a subdivision of the
village shall prohibit or restrict homeowners from installing solar energy
systems. No energy policy statement enacted by a common interest community
shall be more restrictive than the village’s solar energy standards.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-14-202)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $75, nor more than $750, plus costs. Each day on which a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the village from
taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with
this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-15) (Ord. 5/9/2000-1, passed 5-9-2000)
APPENDIX A: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS BY-LAWS
SECTION I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   These rules are supplementary to the provisions of the Zoning Code of
the Village, as they relate to procedures of the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Any member who has any interest in a matter before the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall not vote thereon and shall remove himself from any meeting or
hearings at which said matter is under consideration.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to give or grant to the Zoning Board
the power or authority to alter or change the zoning code including the zoning
map, which authority is reserved to the governing body.
   (D)   The Village Attorney shall be consulted in cases where the powers of
the Zoning Board are not clearly defined.
   (E)   The office of the Zoning Board shall be located at the Village Hall.
SECTION II - OFFICERS AND DUTIES
   (A)   The officers shall be a Chairman, an Acting Chairman, and a Secretary.
   (B)   The Mayor shall designate the Chairman, the Board shall elect from
amongst its members the Acting Chairman when the Chairman is absent; and the
Board shall designate the Secretary. To assist the Secretary, the Village Board
may employ a stenographer whose appointment and salary shall be approved by the
corporate authorities. The Stenographer shall have no voting right.
   (C)   The Chairman shall supervise the affairs of the Zoning Board of
Appeals. He shall preside at all meetings of the Zoning Board, shall appoint
such committees as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the Zoning
Board, and shall provide for the oath to be administered to all witnesses in
cases before the Zoning Board.
OATH
“I, ___________________, do hereby swear (or affirm) that the testimony I am
about to give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help
me God.”
   (D)   The Acting Chairman, in the absence or disability of the Chairman,
shall perform all the duties and exercise all the powers of the Chairman.
   (E)   The Secretary or a designated person shall maintain permanent minutes
of the Board’s proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact; shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions; shall keep an accurate
and detailed transcript of all hearing proceedings and testimony given; shall
record the names and addresses of all persons appearing before the Zoning
Board; shall, subject to the Zoning Board and Chairman, conduct the
correspondence of the Zoning Board and have published in a local newspaper
public notices of meetings or hearings as required by law and these rules of
procedures; shall file said minutes and records in the office of the Board,
which minutes and records shall be a public record; and shall be the custodian
of the files of this Board and keep all records. These records shall be kept at
the Village Hall at all times.
SECTION III - MEETINGS
   (A)   Regular meetings shall be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month at
7:30 p.m., in the Village Hall unless such day shall be a recognized holiday,
in that event, the regular meeting shall be held on the following Monday of
that month, or at such other time and place as the Chairman may designate.
   (B)   Regular meetings may be canceled by the Chairman when there are no
cases pending. Notification must be given to members, however, not less than
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time set for such meeting.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairman at his discretion or
upon the request of two (2) or more members, provided that forty-eight (48)
hours notice is given each member. However, no formal action may be taken at
such meetings on items requiring public notice and advertising unless the
provisions and requirements of the Zoning Code are met.
   (D)   All meetings shall be open to the public.
   (E)   A quorum shall consist of four (4) members for any regular or special
meeting(s), and the concurring vote of four (4) members is required for any
decision, determination, or official action by the Board.
SECTION IV - ORDER OF BUSINESS
   (A)   All meeting of the Board shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   Roll call and declaration of quorum.
      (2)   Reading and approval of minutes of previous meeting.
      (3)   Communications.
      (4)   Announcement of decisions from last meeting.
      (5)   Reports of committees.
      (6)   Call of cases on agenda and hearing of requests for continuance.
      (7)   Oath of Office.
      (8)   Hearing of cases on agenda.
      (9)   Unfinished business.
      (10)   New Business.
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Continuances. Continuances may be granted at the discretion of the
Zoning Board in any case for good cause shown or to any interested party who
has entered his appearance and can show good cause. Request for continuance
will be considered upon application therefor by the party or his representative
at the time the case is called, and upon showing:
      (1)   That he has given reasonable notice in writing to all persons who
have filed an appearance in the matter, and
      (2)   That he will be unable to proceed with his evidence at his hearing.
   (C)   Failure of Applicant to Appear.
      (1)   The Chairman may entertain a motion from the Zoning Board to
dismiss the case for want of prosecution. In the absence of a motion by the
Board, the Chair shall rule.
      (2)   In cases which are dismissed for want of prosecution, the applicant
will be furnished written notice by the Secretary of the Board.
      (3)   The applicant shall have seven (7) days from the date of notice of
dismissal to apply for reinstatement of the case. In such cases, the applicant
must file written request with the Secretary for reinstatement. Reinstatement
shall be at the discretion of the Chairman and for good cause shown, and upon
payment of the fee for advertising public notice.
      (4)   In all cases reinstated in above described manner, the cause shall
be docketed and readvertised in the usual manner prescribed for new cases.
SECTION V - PROCEDURES ON APPEALS
   (A)   An appeal for an interpretation from the Zoning Administrator’s
decision may be taken by any person aggrieved, officer, department, board, or
bureau of the municipality affected by the Zoning Administrator’s decision.
   (B)   An appeal shall be considered only if the action taken by the Zoning
Administrator was taken within seven (7) days prior to the filing of the appeal
application form with the Zoning Administrator and the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit to the Secretary of the Board
all papers constituting the records upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   (D)   The applicant shall provide all the information required on the appeal
application form as well as any additional information that may be required by
the Board to aid it in reaching a decision.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the properly filed appeal application form, the
Secretary of the Board shall assign a case number and place it on the calendar
of the Board for hearing within sixty (60) days; the sixty-day time limitation
may be extended by the Board because of extenuating circumstances such as
scheduling the appearance of expert witnesses. Application for appeals shall be
assigned for hearing in the order in which they are received; unless
circumstances dictate otherwise. Said application may be filed with an
accompanying application for a request for variation.
   (F)   Filing of the appeal application form with the Zoning Administrator
and the Board shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board that, by reason of
the facts stated in the appeal application, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In this event, proceedings cannot be stayed
other than by a restraining order granted by the Board or by a court of record
on application, and on notice to the Zoning Administrator and due cause shown.
SECTION VI - PROCEDURES FOR VARIANCES
   (A)   A petition for a variance may be taken by any aggrieved person where
there may be practical difficulties or particular hardships under the strict
letter of the zoning code relating to the use, construction, or alteration of
buildings or structures in accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code.
   (B)   A petition for a variance shall be considered only upon the filing of
an application with the Zoning Administrator and the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The applicant shall prove all the information required on the
application form as well as any additional information that may be required by
the Board to aid it in reaching a decision.
   (D)   The applicant shall pay a fee, which is specified in the Zoning Code,
which amount shall be deposited with the Village for each petition for
application filed.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the properly filed application for a request for a
variance and proof of receipt of fee, the Secretary of the Board shall assign a
case number and place it on the calendar of the Board for hearing within sixty
(60) days; the sixty (60) day time limit may be extended by the Board because
of extenuating circumstances such as scheduling of expert witnesses.
Application for requests for variations shall be assigned for hearing in the
order in which they are received, unless circumstances dictate otherwise. Said
application may be filed accompanying a request for an appeal.
SECTION VII - PROCEDURES ON SPECIAL USE PERMITS
   (A)   A petition for a Special Use Permit may be taken by any person, firm,
corporation or agency in accordance with the Zoning Code.
   (B)   A petition shall be considered only upon the filing of an application
with the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   The applicant shall provide all the information required on the
petition as well as any additional information that may be required by the
Board to aid it in reaching a decision.
   (D)   The applicant shall pay a fee, which is specified in the Zoning Code
which amount shall be deposited with the Village Clerk for each special use
permit request that is filed.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the properly filed application for request for Special
Use Permit and proof of receipt of fee, the Secretary of the Zoning Board shall
assign a case number and place it on the calendar of the Zoning Board for
hearing within sixty (60) days; the sixty (60) day time limit may be extended
by the Board because of extenuating circumstances such as scheduling of expert
witnesses. Applications shall be assigned for hearing in the order in which
they are received; unless circumstances dictate otherwise. The application may
be filed accompanying a request for an appeal.
SECTION VIII - NOTICE FOR HEARINGS
   (A)   The Secretary of the Board shall give due notice of the place and time
for hearing of the appeal application, request for variation, request for a
special use or a request for an amendment to the Code, the parties concerned
either in person or by first class mail, not less than fifteen (15) days and
not more than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing. Such notice shall state
the name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the owner of the
property, the location of the property, and a brief statement of the nature of
the request. Such notice shall be sent to the property adjacent to the location
for which the appeal, variation, special use or amendment requested. The
applicant shall furnish the Board a complete list containing the names and last
known addresses of the owners of property required to be served at the time the
application is filed.
   (B)   The Secretary of the Zoning Board shall provide for a public notice at
least once in a newspaper published in the municipality not more than thirty
(30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing. The notice shall
state place of the hearing, the location of the property for which the request
for a variance, a special use permit or an amendment is requested, as well as
the statement of the nature of the application. It shall contain a legal
description of the property affected and the common address or its location by
distances from the nearest major street or road intersection so that the
property can be easily identified.
SECTION IX - PROCEDURES ON HEARINGS
   (A)   At the time of the hearing, the applicant may appear in his own behalf
or be represented by counsel or agent.
   (B)   In the event that objectors retain counsel to represent them at a
hearing before the Zoning Board, then such counsel shall notify the appellant
or applicant, or his agent or attorney that he has been so retained and will be
present to object. Such notice shall be delivered to the officers of the Zoning
Board and to the appellant or applicant, or his agent or attorney, at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled hearing date. If such notice is not
given by counsel retained by the objectors, then the appellant or applicant, or
his agent or attorney shall have the option of continuing the hearing to the
next regular meeting of the Zoning Board.
   (C)   All witnesses shall testify under oath.
   (D)   The applicant or his representative may make a statement outlining the
nature of his request prior to introducing evidence.
   (E)   Evidence shall be presented in the following order:
      (1)   Chairman may give restatement of case if applicant’s or his
representative’s presentation needs clarification.
      (2)   Applicant presents evidence.
      (3)   Board and/or objectors cross-examine applicant’s witnesses.
      (4)   Objectors present evidence.
      (5)   Board and/or applicant cross-examine objector’s evidence.
      (6)   Rebuttal by applicant.
      (7)   Rebuttal by objectors.
      (8)   Evidence by Board.
   (F)   The Board shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence, but it
may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly repetitious testimony
or other evidence.
   (G)   An applicant or objector, or his agent or attorney may submit a list
of the persons favoring or opposing the application. Such list will be accepted
as an exhibit if it contains nothing more than a brief statement of the
position of the persons favoring or opposing the appeal of application,
together with the signature of the person(s) subscribing to such statement.
   (H)   The Chairman shall rule on all questions relating to the admissibility
of evidence, which may be overruled by a majority of the Zoning Board.
SECTION X - DECISIONS
   (A)   Final decisions or recommendations shall be made within ten (10) days
from the date of the hearing.
   (B)   The Board shall conduct its vote in public session at the meeting in
which evidence is concluded, unless the Zoning Board considers additional time
for deliberation necessary.
   (C)   A concurring vote of four (4) members of the Zoning Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Administrator, or to grant any variance or special use permit of the
Code or to recommend any amendment in the Code to the corporate authorities.
All members, including the Chairman, shall vote unless excused for a conflict
of interest.
   (D)   All decisions of the Zoning Board shall be made at a public meeting by
motion made, seconded, and the Chairman polling the membership by a roll call
vote. All members shall vote unless excused. The motion which decides the issue
shall be in the form of findings of fact and shall state the reasons for the
findings by the Board. If conditions are imposed in the granting of a variance
or special use permit, such conditions shall be included in the motion.
   (E)   The transcript of the case shall be acknowledged as to accuracy by the
Chairman and the Secretary and shall be a part of the public record of the
Zoning Board.
   (F)   Notice of the decision of the Zoning Board shall be given to the
applicant, the Zoning Administrator, and other interested parties as soon as
possible after the decision is reached.
   (G)   Unless otherwise specified by the Zoning Board, any order or decision
of the Zoning Board authorizing a variance or special use permit shall expire
if the applicant fails to obtain a building and/or zoning occupancy permit
within ninety (90) days from the date of decision.
SECTION XI - RECORDS
   (A)   A file of materials and decisions relating to each case shall be kept
by the Secretary and/or the Zoning Administrator as part of the records of the
Zoning Board.
   (B)   All records of the Zoning Board shall be a public record.
SECTION XII - AMENDMENT OF RULES
   (A)   These rules may be amended by an affirmative majority vote of all
members of the Zoning Board.
   (B)   All proposed amendments shall be presented in writing at a regular or
special meeting preceding the meeting at which the vote is taken.
The foregoing rules and regulations are hereby adopted by the Board of Appeals
of the Village of Moweaqua, Illinois, this 5th day of October, 1998.
                              ________________________
                              CHAIRMAN
                              ________________________
                              SECRETARY
(1999 Code, By-laws)
APPENDIX B: FIGURES
FIGURE 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9e4ef7b0709675bf6bd27c2559406abe49fcdf7e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2790.jpg]
FIGURE 4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9e4ef7b0709675bf6bd27c2559406abe49fcdf7e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2792.jpg]
(1999 Code, Ch. 40, Figures)
APPENDIX C: AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS TABLES
 
Area and Bulk Regulations - Summary Sheet
          Accessory Buildings and Uses if Detached Minimum Distance to:
          Principal                  Side Lot    Other Side Lot
Zone      Building in Front Lot Line Adjacent to Line, in       Rear Lot Line
Districts Linear Feet in Linear Feet Street in   Linear Feet    in Linear Feet
                                     Linear Feet
Area and Bulk Regulations - Summary Sheet
             Accessory Buildings and Uses if Detached Minimum Distance to:
             Principal   Front Lot   Side Lot    Other Side Lot
Zone         Building in Line in     Adjacent to Line, in       Rear Lot Line
Districts    Linear Feet Linear Feet Street in   Linear Feet    in Linear Feet
                                     Linear Feet
A-
1            N/A         50'         25'         8'             5'
Agricultural
SR-1 Single- N/A         N/A         25'         8'             5'
Family
SR-2 Single- N/A         N/A         25'         8'             5'
Family
MR-1 Two-    N/A         N/A         25'         8'             5'
Family
MH-1 Mobile  N/A         N/A         25'         8'             5'
Housing
B-1 Central  15'         15'         25'         See Principal  12'
Business                                         Building
B-2 Highway  15'         15'         25'         15'            12'
Business
I-           15'         15'         25'         15'            12'
1 Industrial
Area and Bulk Regulations - Summary Sheet
          Minimum Lot Size                Minimum Yard Dimensions
                                                         Depth of Side
                                                         Yard Abutting
                                                         a Lot, in     Minimum
                   Area                   Depth Depth of Linear Feet   Distance  Depth
          Maximum  in     Width at Mean   of    Side                   to        of
Zone      Number   Square Building Depth  Front Yard                   Nearest   Rear
Districts of       Feet   Line, in in     Yard  Abutting               Principal Yard
          Dwelling or     Linear   Linear in    Street   Total Minimum on        in
          Units    Acres  Feet     Feet   Feet  in Feet  for   for     Adjacent  Linear
                                                         Both  Either  Lot in    Feet
                                                                       Feet
Area and Bulk Regulations - Summary Sheet
             Minimum Lot Size                  Minimum Yard Dimensions
                                                                Depth of Side
                                                                Yard Abutting
                                                                a Lot, in     Minimum
                                                       Depth of Linear Feet   Distance  Depth
             Maximum  Area in Width at Mean    Depth   Side                   to        of
Zone         Number   Square  Building Depth   of      Yard                   Nearest   Rear
Districts    of       Feet or Line, in in      Front   Abutting               Principal Yard
             Dwelling Acres   Linear   Linear  Yard in Street   Total Minimum on        in
             Units            Feet     Feet    Feet    in Feet  for   for     Adjacent  Linear
                                                                Both  Either  Lot in    Feet
                                                                              Feet


A-                            150'     200'    50'     50'
1            1        3 acres minimum  minimum minimum minimum  25'   10'     N/A       25'
Agricultural
SR-1 Single- 1        10,000  80'      100'    25'     25'      25'   10'     N/A       25'
Family                sq. ft. minimum  minimum minimum minimum
SR-2 Single- 1        7,000   50'      100'    25'     25'      20'   7.5'    N/A       25'
Family                sq. ft. minimum  minimum minimum minimum
MR-1 Two-    1 per    10,000  80'      100'    25'     25'
Family       4,500    sq. ft. minimum  minimum minimum minimum  25'   10'     15'       25'
             sq. ft.  minimum
MH-1 Mobile  1        7,000   60'      100'    25'     25'      25'   10'     20'       20'
Housing               sq. ft  minimum  minimum minimum minimum
                                                                None
                                                                requested
                                                                when abutting
B-1 Central  N/A      None    30'      None    N/A     N/A      a SR or MR    N/A       25'
Business                      minimum                           district a
                                                                side yard of
                                                                15' is
                                                                required
B-2 Highway  N/A      20,000  125'     150'    50'     50'      50'   20'     75'       25'
Business              sq. ft. minimum  minimum minimum minimum
I-           N/A      20,000  125'     150'    25'     50'      50'   25'     N/A       25'
1 Industrial          sq. ft. minimum  minimum minimum minimum
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1999 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                         Code Section
5 ILCS 120                           31.005,
                                     151.060
5 ILCS 120/1                         31.005
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                 31.002
5 ILCS 120/2.02                      31.003,
                                     31.010
5 ILCS 120/2.03                      31.003
5 ILCS 120/2.06                      31.005
5 ILCS 270/1                         30.07
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.               35.20
5 ILCS 430/5-15                      35.20
                                     35.01,
5 ILCS 430/10                        35.02,
                                     35.04,
                                     35.05
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40       35.20
5 ILCS 430/50-5                      35.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5                      35.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                   35.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                   35.20
10 ILCS                              30.02
20 ILCS 3305                         34.076
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.               34.090
30 ILCS 235/6                        31.088
35 ILCS 120                          111.001
40 ILCS 5/7-132 et seq.              36.034
40 ILCS 5/21-01 et seq.              36.033
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.                 36.127
50 ILCS 105/2                        30.03,
                                     31.030
50 ILCS 105/4.1                      35.51,
                                     35.53
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.                34.034
50 ILCS 820                          111.157
50 ILCS 820/1 to 820/8               111.173
65 ILCS                              31.001
65 ILCS 5/11-129-1 et seq.           51.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35                  31.060
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20                  31.028
65 ILCS 5/1                          70.01
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                      10.12
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2.1                    10.12
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(5)                   10.12
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                      152.01,
                                     152.11
65 ILCS 5/1-2-3                      10.01,
                                     10.03
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4                      31.052
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5                      31.052
65 ILCS 5/1-2-6                      10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-7                      10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-8                      10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.1                    10.99
                                     70.01,
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2                      130.01,
                                     130.15
65 ILCS 5/2-2-12                     30.01,
                                     30.09
65 ILCS 5/3-7-6                      31.116
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5                   30.06
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6                   30.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10                  30.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15                  30.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30                  30.07
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35                  30.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40                  30.04,
                                     31.063
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45                  31.064,
                                     31.081
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50                  30.05,
                                     31.027
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(B)               31.004
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(D)               31.001
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5                   31.025
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10                  31.028
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15                  30.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20                  30.04,
                                     31.057
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25                  30.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5                   31.001
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-15                  31.025
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90                  31.050,
                                     31.051
                                     31.030,
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5                   31.050,
                                     31.100
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10                  31.064
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5                   31.034
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10                  31.031
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30                  31.029
                                     31.078,
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40                  31.079,
                                     31.083
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45                  31.079,
                                     31.084
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50                  31.088
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55                  31.080
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65                  31.086
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70                  31.086
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85                  31.082
                                     30.01,
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90                  31.052,
                                     31.053
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-95                  31.064
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110                 31.052,
                                     31.058
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115                 31.087
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15                  31.009 
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20                  31.007,
                                     31.008
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25                  31.002,
                                     31.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35                  31.005
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40                  30.30
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45                  30.30
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50                  30.31
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55                  30.32
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5                   31.037
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5                   30.45,
                                     30.46
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-6                   30.45
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10                  30.46
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15                  30.46
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15(B)               35.35
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10                  30.10
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1                      36.030
65 ILCS 5/8-8-8                      36.032
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1                      30.09
65 ILCS 5/8-9-2                      30.09
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                     36.071,
                                     36.094
                                     36.053,
                                     36.090,
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                     36.091,
                                     36.092,
                                     36.999
65 ILCS 5/8-11-17                    36.050,
                                     36.053
                                     70.01,
                                     90.010,
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1                     90.041,
                                     90.061,
                                     130.15,
                                     132.020
65 ILCS 5/11-1-2                     34.033
65 ILCS 5/11-1-3                     36.031
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                     134.01,
                                     134.02
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6                     34.055,
                                     34.070
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1                     132.105,
                                     132.106
                                     131.26,
                                     132.002,
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2                     132.004,
                                     132.060,
                                     132.061
65 ILCS 5/11-5-3                     132.005
65 ILCS 5/11-5-4                     132.006
65 ILCS 5/11-5-6                     90.006,
                                     90.010
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4                     131.11
65 ILCS 5/11-10-1 et seq.            36.113
65 ILCS 5/11-12                      32.09
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 through 5/11-12-12 32.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12-5                    154.002
                                     154.036,
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8                    154.093,
                                     154.160
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 through 5/11-12-12 154.002
65 ILCS 5/11-12-11                   154.006
                                     32.06,
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                   152.01,
                                     152.11
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1                    155.002,
                                     155.409
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3                    155.345,
                                     155.369
65 ILCS 5/11-13-4                    152.09
65 ILCS 5/11-13-5                    152.09,
                                     155.388
65 ILCS 5/11-13-7                    155.387,
                                     155.407
                                     155.365,
                                     155.366,
65 ILCS 5/11-13-12                   155.367,
                                     155.368,
                                     155.369
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14                   155.425,
                                     155.431
65 ILCS 5/11-13-19                   155.036
65 ILCS 5/11-13-26                   155.053
65 ILCS 5/11-20-6                    91.027
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                    91.027
                                     90.010,
65 ILCS 5/11-20-9                    90.031,
                                     90.041,
                                     90.061
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13                   91.046
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                    152.01,
                                     152.11
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                    152.01,
                                     152.11
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1                    91.067
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                    152.01,
                                     152.11
65 ILCS 5/11-42-3                    111.142
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5                    111.101
65 ILCS 5/11-42-9                    91.001
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2                    91.005
65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23 94.095
65 ILCS 5/11-80-2                    94.150
                                     94.023,
65 ILCS 5/11-80-3                    94.025,
                                     94.026
65 ILCS 5/11-80-7                    94.112,
                                     94.132
65 ILCS 5/11-80-11                   94.111
65 ILCS 5/11-80-13                   94.110,
                                     94.167
65 ILCS 5/11-80-15                   132.049
65 ILCS 5/11-80-17                   94.020
65 ILCS 5/31-35-35                   31.026
65 ILCS 5/32-5.1                     132.021
65 ILCS 5/34-10-30                   30.04
70 ILCS 605/2-1 through 605/2-13     155.232
                                     154.036,
70 ILCS 405/22.02A                   155.366,
                                     155.386
75 ILCS 5/4-1                        30.03
105 ILCS 5/35-8                      155.237
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.               153.040
210 ILCS 115/2.1                     153.001
210 ILCS 115/2.2                     153.001,
                                     155.021
210 ILCS 115/2.3                     153.001,
                                     155.021
210 ILCS 115/2.4                     153.001,
                                     155.021
210 ILCS 115/2.5                     153.001,
                                     155.021
210 ILCS 115/2.7                     153.001
210 ILCS 115/2.10                    153.001,
                                     155.021
210 ILCS 117/5                       91.110,
                                     91.111
210 ILCS 117/15                      91.112
210 ILCS 117/20                      91.113
                                     91.114,
210 ILCS 117/25                      91.115,
                                     91.116,
                                     91.118
210 ILCS 117/30                      91.118,
                                     91.119
210 ILCS 117/35                      91.120
210 ILCS 117/40                      91.121
210 ILCS 117/45                      91.122
210 ILCS 117/50                      91.123
210 ILCS 120 et seq.                 153.001
215 ILCS 115                         153.002
215 ILCS 120                         153.002
220 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                 93.15,
                                     94.053
220 ILCS 5/16-104                    36.091,
                                     36.092
225 ILCS 225                         53.033
225 ILCS 225/1 through 225/23        155.049
225 ILCS 227                         92.22
225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.               92.20
225 ILCS 305/1 et seq.               155.325
225 ILCS 320/3                       52.061
225 ILCS 460                         111.077
230 ILCS 15/1                        111.115
230 ILCS 15/2                        111.115
230 ILCS 15/8.1                      111.123
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                110.115
230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.                110.115
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                110.115
                                     110.015,
                                     110.039,
235 ILCS 5                           110.090,
                                     110.091,
                                     110.118
330 ILCS 60/1 et seq.                33.047
410 ILCS 25                          94.111
415 ILCS 5/4(e)                      52.061
425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq.             92.20
425 ILCS 60/1-60/4                   153.006
430 ILCS 66/1 et seq.                133.01
505 ILCS 147/1 et seq.               155.504
510 ILCS 5/1                         90.001
510 ILCS 5/2                         90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.02                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.03                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.05                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.06                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.11                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.12                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.13                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.14                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.15                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.16                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.18                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.19                      90.002
510 ILCS 5/10                        90.032
510 ILCS 5/15(2)                     90.002
510 ILCS 5/16                        90.060
510 ILCS 5/17                        90.059,
                                     90.061
510 ILCS 5/24                        90.002,
                                     90.061
510 ILCS 20                          90.116
510 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                90.114
510 ILCS 20/2                        90.115
525 ILCS 55/1 et seq.                155.502,
                                     155.504
615 ILCS 5/5 through 29A             152.06
625 ILCS 5                           73.12
625 ILCS 5/3-815                     72.04
625 ILCS 5/4-202                     73.07
625 ILCS 5/4-204                     73.08
625 ILCS 5/4-205                     73.09
625 ILCS 5/4-206                     73.10
625 ILCS 5/4-207                     73.11
625 ILCS 5/4-209                     73.13
625 ILCS 5/4-210                     73.14
625 ILCS 5/4-211                     73.15
625 ILCS 5/4-213                     73.16
625 ILCS 5/4-214                     73.99
625 ILCS 5/6-306.5                   72.11
625 ILCS 5/11-203                    70.15
625 ILCS 5/11-206                    70.21
625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502     71.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1006                   111.077
625 ILCS 5/11-1507                   70.22
625 ILCS 5/12-201                    71.16
625 ILCS 5/12-709                    71.16
625 ILCS 5/95-1/2                    72.27
625 ILCS 18c-1101 et seq.            155.021
625 ILCS 95-1/2/11-208               72.30
705 ILCS 405                         10.99
720 ILCS                             Ch. 130,
                                     130.15
720 ILCS 2-1 et seq.                 Ch. 130 
720 ILCS 2-1 through 2-11            130.01
720 ILCS 2-13 through 2-16           130.01
720 ILCS 2-19                        130.01
720 ILCS 2-20                        130.01
720 ILCS 5/11-22                     132.107
720 ILCS 5/16-1                      131.01
720 ILCS 5/21-1                      131.02
720 ILCS 5/21-1.1                    131.03
720 ILCS 5/25-1                      132.001,
                                     132.061
720 ILCS 5/31-1                      132.022
720 ILCS 5/31-6(C)                   130.18
720 ILCS 5/31-7                      130.17
720 ILCS 5/31-8                      132.023
720 ILCS 5/32-9                      131.06
720 ILCS 505/1                       130.24
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.               132.090
720 ILCS 600/1 et seq.               132.091
720 ILCS 605/1                       132.003
720 ILCS 675/1                       132.075
720 ILCS 680-1 et seq.               132.076
740 ILCS 55/221                      91.005
740 ILCS 55/222                      91.005
745 ILCS 10/1-101                    154.007,
                                     155.005
745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.            30.08
765 ILCS 165/1 et seq.               155.506
765 ILCS 205                         152.08,
                                     154.036
                                     154.002,
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.               154.005,
                                     154.160
765 ILCS 205/1                       154.177
765 ILCS 205/1(b)                    154.036,
                                     154.091
765 ILCS 205/2                       152.08,
                                     154.093
765 ILCS 205/6                       154.125
765 ILCS 205/7                       154.125
765 ILCS 205/8                       154.125
805 ILCS 110/0.01 et seq.            155.244
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.               33.061
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO 1999 CODE
1999 Code 2019 Code
1999 Code                2019 Code
1-1-1                    10.01
1-1-2                    10.02
1-1-3                    10.03
1-1-4                    10.04
1-1-5                    10.05
1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-9                    10.07
1-1-10                   10.08
1-1-11                   10.09
1-1-12                   10.10
1-1-15                   10.11
1-1-16                   10.12
1-1-17                   10.13
1-1-20                   10.99
1-1-21                   10.99
1-1-22                   10.99
1-1-23                   10.99
1-1-24                   10.14
1-1-25                   10.15
1-2-1                    31.001
1-2-2                    31.002
1-2-3                    31.003
1-2-4                    31.004
1-2-5                    31.005
1-2-6                    31.006
1-2-7                    31.007
1-2-8                    31.008
1-2-11                   31.009
1-2-12                   31.010
1-2-13                   31.011
1-2-14                   30.30
1-2-15                   30.31
1-2-16                   30.32
1-2-18                   30.01
1-2-19                   30.02
1-2-20                   30.03
1-2-21                   30.04
1-2-22                   30.05
1-2-23                   30.06
1-2-24                   30.07
1-2-25                   30.08
1-2-26                   30.09
1-2-27                   30.10
1-2-28                   30.45
1-2-29                   30.11
1-2-30                   30.12
1-2-31                   35.35
1-2-31.1                 35.36
1-2-32                   30.13
1-2-33                   30.14
1-2-34                   30.15
1-2-40                   31.025
1-2-41                   31.026
1-2-42                   31.027
1-2-43                   31.028
1-2-45                   31.029
1-2-46                   31.030
1-2-47                   31.031
1-2-48                   31.032
1-2-49                   31.033
1-2-50                   31.034
1-2-51                   31.035
1-2-52                   31.036
1-2-54                   31.037
1-2-56                   31.050
1-2-57                   31.051
1-2-58                   31.052
1-2-59                   31.053
1-2-60                   31.054
1-2-61                   31.055
1-2-62                   31.056
1-2-63                   31.057
1-2-64                   31.058
1-2-65                   31.059
1-2-66                   31.060
1-2-67                   31.061
1-2-68                   31.062
1-2-69                   31.063
1-2-70                   31.064
1-2-72                   31.075
1-2-73                   31.076
1-2-74                   31.077
1-2-75                   31.078
1-2-76                   31.079
1-2-77                   31.080
1-2-78                   31.081
1-2-79                   31.082
1-2-80                   31.083
1-2-81                   31.084
1-2-82                   31.085
1-2-83                   31.086
1-2-84                   31.087
1-2-85                   31.088
1-2-88                   31.100
1-2-89                   31.101
1-2-94                   31.115
1-2-95                   31.116
1-2-98                   31.130
1-2-99                   31.131
1-2-100                  31.132
1-2-101                  31.133
1-2-104                  31.145
1-2-105                  31.146
1-2-106                  31.147
1-2-107                  31.148
1-2-108                  31.149
1-2-111                  31.160
1-2-112                  31.161
1-3-1                    30.46
1-4-1                    30.60
1-4-2                    30.61
1-5-1                    35.01
1-5-2                    35.02
1-5-3                    35.03
1-5-4                    35.04
1-5-5                    35.05
1-6-1                    36.001
1-6-2                    36.002
1-6-3                    36.003
1-6-4                    36.004
1-6-5                    36.005
1-6-6                    36.006
1-6-7                    36.007
1-6-8                    36.008
1-6-9                    36.009
1-6-10                   36.010
1-6-11                   36.011
1-6-12                   36.012
1-6-13                   36.013
1-6-14                   36.014
1-6-15                   36.015
1-6-16                   36.016
1-6-17                   36.017
1-7-1                    35.20
3-1-1                    90.001
3-1-2                    90.002
3-1-3                    90.003
3-1-4                    90.004
3-1-5                    90.005
3-1-6                    90.006
3-1-7                    90.007
3-1-8                    90.008
3-1-9                    90.009
3-1-10                   90.010
3-2-1                    90.025
3-2-2                    90.026
3-2-3                    90.027
3-2-4                    90.028
3-2-5                    90.029
3-2-6                    90.030
3-2-7                    90.031
3-2-8                    90.032
3-2-9                    90.033
3-2-10                   90.034
3-2-11                   90.035
3-2-12                   90.036
3-2-13                   90.037
3-2-14                   90.038
3-2-15                   90.039
3-2-16                   90.040
3-2-17                   90.041
3-3-1                    90.055
3-3-2                    90.056
3-3-3                    90.057
3-3-4                    90.058
3-3-5                    90.059
3-3-6                    90.060
3-3-7                    90.061
3-4-1                    90.075
3-4-2                    90.076
3-4-3                    90.077
3-4-4                    90.078
3-4-5                    90.079
3-4-6                    90.080
3-4-7                    90.081
3-4-8                    90.082
3-4-9                    90.083
3-4-10                   90.084
3-4-11                   90.085
3-4-12                   90.086
3-4-13                   90.087
3-4-14                   90.088
3-4-15                   90.089
3-4-16                   90.090
3-4-17                   90.091
3-4-18                   90.092
3-4-19                   90.093
3-4-20                   90.094
3-4-21                   90.095
3-4-22                   90.096
3-4-23                   90.097
3-4-24                   90.098
4-1-1                    32.01
4-1-2                    32.02
4-1-3                    32.03
4-1-4                    32.04
4-1-5                    32.05
4-1-6                    32.06
4-1-7                    32.07
4-1-8                    32.08
4-1-9                    32.09
6-1-1                    150.01
6-1-2                    150.02
6-1-3                    150.03
6-1-4                    150.04
6-1-5                    150.05
6-1-6                    150.06
6-2-1                    150.20
6-2-2                    150.21
6-2-3                    150.22
6-2-4                    150.23
6-3-1                    150.35
6-3-2                    150.36
6-3-3                    150.37
6-3-4                    150.38
7-1-1                    111.001
7-1-2                    111.002
7-1-3                    111.003
7-1-4                    111.004
7-1-5                    111.005
7-1-6                    111.006
7-1-7                    111.007
7-1-8                    111.008
7-1-9                    111.009
7-1-10.1                 111.025
7-1-10.2                 111.026
7-1-10.3                 111.027
7-1-11.1                 111.040
7-1-11.2                 111.041
7-1-11.3                 111.042
7-1-11.4                 111.043
7-1-12                   111.010
7-1-13.1                 111.055
7-1-13.2                 111.056
7-1-13.3                 111.057
7-1-13.4                 111.058
7-1-13.5                 111.059
7-1-14                   111.011
7-1-15                   111.012
7-2-1                    111.070
7-2-2                    111.071
7-2-3                    111.072
7-2-5                    111.073
7-2-6                    111.074
7-2-7                    111.075
7-2-9                    111.076
7-2-10                   111.077
7-2-11                   111.078
7-3-1                    111.090
7-3-2                    111.091
7-3-3                    111.092
7-3-4                    111.093
7-3-5                    111.094
7-3-6                    111.095
7-3-7                    111.096
7-3-8                    111.097
7-3-9                    111.098
7-3-10                   111.099
7-3-11                   111.100
7-3-12                   111.101
7-4-1                    111.115
7-4-2                    111.116
7-4-3                    111.117
7-4-4                    111.118
7-4-5                    111.119
7-4-6                    111.120
7-4-7                    111.121
7-4-8                    111.122
7-4-9                    111.999
7-4-10                   111.123
7-5-1                    111.135
7-5-2                    111.136
7-5-3                    111.137
7-5-4                    111.138
7-5-5                    111.139
7-5-6                    111.140
7-5-7                    111.141
7-5-8                    111.142
7-6-1                    111.155
7-6-2                    111.156
7-6-3                    111.157
7-6-4                    111.158
7-6-5                    111.159
7-6-6                    111.160
7-6-7                    111.161
7-6-8                    111.162
7-6-9                    111.163
7-6-10                   111.164
7-6-11                   111.165
7-6-12                   111.166
7-6-13                   111.167
7-6-14                   111.168
7-6-15                   111.169
7-6-16                   111.170
7-6-17                   111.171
7-6-18                   111.172
7-6-19                   111.173
7-7-1                    111.185
7-7-3                    111.186
7-7-4                    111.187
7-7-5                    111.188
7-7-6                    111.189
7-7-7                    111.190
7-7-8                    111.191
7-7-9                    111.192
7-7-10                   111.193
7-7-11                   111.194
7-7-12                   111.195
7-7-13                   111.196
7-7-14                   111.197
7-7-15                   111.198
7-7-16                   111.199
7-7-17                   111.200
7-7-18                   111.201
7-7-20                   111.202
7-7-21                   111.203
7-7-22                   111.204
14-1-1                   152.01
14-1-2                   152.02
14-1-3                   152.03
14-1-4                   152.04
14-1-5                   152.05
14-1-6                   152.06
14-1-7                   152.07
14-1-8                   152.08
14-1-9                   152.09
14-1-10                  152.10
14-1-11                  152.99
14-1-12                  152.11
16-1-1                   92.01
16-1-2                   92.02
16-1-3                   92.03
16-1-4                   92.04
16-1-5                   92.05
16-1-6                   92.06
16-2-1                   92.20
16-2-2                   92.21
16-2-3                   92.22
16-2-4                   92.99
21-1-5                   110.001
21-1-7                   110.002
21-1-8                   110.003
21-2-1                   110.015
21-3-1                   110.030
21-3-2                   110.031
21-3-3                   110.032
21-3-4                   110.033
21-3-5                   110.034
21-3-6                   110.035
21-3-7                   110.036
21-3-8                   110.037
21-3-9                   110.038
21-3-10                  110.039
21-3-11                  110.040
21-3-12                  110.041
21-3-13                  110.042
21-3-14                  110.043
21-3-15                  110.044
21-3-16                  110.045
21-4-1                   110.060
21-5-1                   110.075
21-6-1                   110.090
21-6-2                   110.091
21-6-3                   110.092
21-7-1                   110.105—
                         110.117
21-7-2                   110.118
21-8-1                   110.999
23-1-1                   153.001
23-1-2                   153.002
23-1-3                   153.003
23-1-4                   153.004
23-1-5                   153.005
23-1-6                   153.006
23-1-7                   153.007
23-1-8                   153.008
23-1-9                   153.009
23-2-1                   153.020
23-2-2                   153.021
23-2-3                   153.022
23-2-4                   153.023
23-2-5                   153.024
23-2-6                   153.025
23-3-1                   153.040
23-3-2                   153.041
23-3-3                   153.042
23-3-4                   153.043
23-3-5                   153.044
23-3-6                   153.045
23-3-7                   153.046
23-3-10                  153.060
23-3-11                  153.061
23-3-12                  153.062
23-3-13                  153.063
23-3-17                  153.075
23-3-18                  153.076
23-3-21                  153.090
24-1-1                   70.01
24-2-1                   70.15
24-2-2                   70.16
24-2-3                   70.17
24-2-4                   70.18
24-2-5                   70.19
24-2-6                   70.20
24-2-7                   70.21
24-2-8                   70.22
Ch. 24, Sch. A, § 24-2-9Ch. 74, Sch. I
Ch. 24, Sch. C, § 24-2-9Ch. 74, Sch. II
Ch. 24, Sch. D, § 24-2-9Ch. 74, Sch. III
24-6-1                   72.01
24-6-2                   72.02
24-6-3                   72.03
24-6-4                   72.04
24-6-6                   72.06
24-6-7                   72.07
24-6-8                   72.08,
                         72.99
24-6-9                   72.09
24-6-10                  72.10
24-6-11                  72.11
24-7-1                   73.01
24-7-2                   73.02
24-7-3                   73.03
24-7-4                   73.04
24-7-5                   73.99
24-7-6                   73.05
24-7-7                   73.06
24-7-8                   73.06
24-7-9                   73.07
24-7-10                  73.08
24-7-11                  73.09
24-7-12                  73.10
24-7-13                  73.11
24-7-14                  73.12
24-7-15                  73.13
24-7-16                  73.14
24-7-17                  73.15
24-7-18                  73.16
24-7-19                  73.99
24-8-1                   71.15
24-8-2                   71.16
24-8-3                   71.16
24-8-4                   71.16
24-8-5                   71.16
24-8-6                   71.16
24-8-7                   71.17
24-8-8                   71.18
24-8-9                   71.19
24-8-11                  71.20
Ch. 24, Sch. E           Ch. 75, Sch. I
Ch. 24, Sch. F           Ch. 75, Sch. II
25-1-1                   91.001
25-1-2                   91.002
25-1-3                   91.003
25-1-4                   91.004
25-1-5                   91.005
25-2-1                   91.020
25-2-2                   91.021
25-2-3                   91.022
25-2-4                   91.023
25-2-5                   91.024
25-2-6                   91.025
25-2-7                   91.026
25-2-8                   91.027
25-3-1                   91.040
25-3-2                   91.041
25-3-3                   91.042
25-3-4                   91.043
25-3-5                   91.044
25-3-6                   91.045
25-3-7                   91.046
25-5-1                   91.060
25-5-2                   91.061
25-5-3                   91.062
25-5-4                   91.063
25-5-5                   91.064
25-5-6                   91.065
25-5-7                   91.066
25-5-8                   91.067
25-6-1                   91.080
25-6-2                   91.081
25-6-3                   91.082
25-6-4                   91.083
25-7-1                   91.095
25-7-1                   91.110
25-7-2                   91.111
25-7-3                   91.112
25-7-4                   91.113
25-7-5                   91.114
25-7-6                   91.115
25-7-7                   91.116
25-7-9                   91.119
25-7-9                   91.118
25-7-10                  91.120
25-7-11                  91.121
25-7-12                  91.122
25-7-13                  91.123
27-1-1                   130.01
27-1-2                   130.15
27-2-1                   132.020
27-2-2                   132.021
27-2-3                   132.060
27-2-4                   132.061
27-2-5                   132.004
27-2-6                   131.07
27-2-7                   130.16
27-2-8                   132.075
27-2-9                   132.076
27-2-10                  131.08
27-2-11                  130.17
27-2-12                  130.18
27-2-13                  130.19
27-2-14                  130.20
27-2-15                  130.21
27-2-16                  131.09
27-2-17                  132.005
27-2-18                  132.006
27-2-19                  133.01
27-2-20                  133.02
27-2-21                  130.22
27-2-22                  131.11
27-2-23                  131.12
27-2-24                  131.13
27-2-26                  130.24
27-2-27                  134.01
27-2-28                  134.02
27-2-29                  130.25
27-2-30                  132.090,
                         132.999
27-2-31                  132.091,
                         132.999
27-3-1                   131.01
27-3-2                   131.02
27-3-3                   131.03
27-3-4                   131.04
27-3-5                   131.05
27-3-6                   131.06
27-4-1                   132.001
27-4-2                   132.022
27-4-3                   132.023
27-4-4                   132.002
27-4-5                   132.003
27-5-1                   132.035
27-5-2                   132.036
27-5-3                   132.037
27-5-4                   132.038
27-5-5                   132.039
27-5-6                   132.040
27-5-7                   132.041
27-5-8                   132.042
27-5-9                   132.043
27-5-10                  132.044
27-5-11                  132.045
27-5-12                  132.046
27-5-13                  132.047
27-5-14                  132.048
27-5-15                  132.049
27-6-1                   131.25
27-6-2                   131.26
27-7-1                   134.15
27-7-2                   134.16
27-8-1                   132.105
27-8-2                   132.106
27-8-3                   132.107
27-9-1                   132.120
27-9-2                   132.121
27-9-3                   132.122
27-9-4                   132.123
28-1-1                   93.01
28-1-2                   93.02
28-1-3                   93.03
28-1-4                   93.04
28-1-5                   93.05
28-1-6                   93.06
28-1-7                   93.07
28-1-8                   93.08
28-1-9                   93.09
28-1-10                  93.10
28-1-11                  93.11
28-1-12                  93.12
28-1-13                  93.13
28-1-14                  93.14
29-1-1                   151.001
29-1-2                   151.002
29-1-3                   151.003
29-1-4                   151.004
29-1-5                   151.005
29-1-6                   151.006
29-1-7                   151.007
29-1-8                   151.008
29-1-9                   151.009
29-1-10                  151.010
29-1-11                  151.011
29-1-12                  151.012
29-1-13                  151.013
29-1-14                  151.014
29-2-1                   151.025
29-2-2                   151.026
29-3-1                   151.040
29-3-2                   151.041
29-3-3                   151.042
29-3-4                   151.043
29-3-5                   151.044
29-4-1                   151.055
29-4-2                   151.056
29-4-3                   151.057
29-4-4                   151.058
29-4-5                   151.059
29-4-6                   151.060
29-5-1                   151.075
29-5-2                   151.076
29-5-3                   151.077
29-5-4                   151.078
29-5-5                   151.079
29-5-6                   151.080
29-5-7                   151.081
29-6-1                   151.095
29-6-2                   151.096
29-6-3                   151.097
29-6-4                   151.098
29-7-1                   151.110
29-8-1                   151.125
29-8-2                   151.126
29-8-3                   151.127
29-8-4                   151.128
29-8-5                   151.129
29-9-1                   151.140
29-9-2                   151.141
29-9-3                   151.142
29-9-4                   151.143
29-9-5                   151.144
29-10-1                  151.155
29-10-2                  151.156
29-10-3                  151.157
29-11-1                  151.170
29-11-2                  151.171
29-11-3                  151.172
29-11-4                  151.173
29-11-5                  151.174
29-12-1                  151.185
29-12-2                  151.186
29-12-3                  151.187
30-1-1                   34.050
30-1-2                   34.051
30-1-3                   34.052
30-1-4                   34.053
30-1-5                   34.054
30-1-6                   34.055
30-2-1                   34.001
30-2-2                   34.002
30-2-3                   34.003
30-2-4                   34.004
30-2-5                   34.005
30-2-6                   34.006
30-2-7                   34.007
30-2-8                   34.008
30-2-9                   34.009
30-2-10                  34.010
30-2-11                  34.011
30-2-12                  34.012
30-2-13                  34.013
30-2-14                  34.014
30-2-15                  34.015
30-2-16                  34.016
30-2-17                  34.017
30-2-18                  34.018
30-2-20                  34.020
30-2-22                  34.022
30-2-23                  34.023
30-2-24                  34.024
30-2-25                  34.025
30-2-27                  34.027
30-2-28                  34.028
30-2-29                  34.029
30-2-30                  34.030
30-2-31                  34.031
30-2-32                  34.032
30-2-33                  34.033
30-3-1                   34.070
30-3-2                   34.071
30-3-3                   34.072
30-3-4                   34.073
30-3-5                   34.074
30-3-6                   34.075
30-3-7                   34.076
30-3-8                   34.077
30-3-9                   34.078
30-3-10                  34.079
30-3-11                  34.080
30-3-12                  34.081
30-3-13                  34.082
30-3-14                  34.083
30-3-15                  34.084
30-3-16                  34.085
30-3-17                  34.086
30-3-18                  34.087
30-3-19                  34.088
30-3-20                  34.089
30-3-21                  34.090
33-1-1                   94.001
33-1-2                   94.002
33-2-1                   94.015
33-2-2                   94.016
33-2-3                   94.017
33-2-4                   94.018
33-2-5                   94.019
33-2-6                   94.020
33-2-7                   94.021,
                         94.999
33-2-8                   94.022
33-2-9                   94.023
33-2-10                  94.024
33-2-11                  94.025
33-2-12                  94.026
33-2-13                  94.027
33-2-14                  94.028
33-2-15                  94.029
33-2-16                  94.030
33-2-17                  94.031
33-2-18                  94.032
33-3-1                   94.045
33-3-2                   94.046
33-3-3                   94.047
33-3-4                   94.048
33-3-5                   94.049
33-3-6                   94.050
33-3-7                   94.051
33-3-8                   94.052
33-4-1                   94.065
33-4-2                   94.066
33-4-3                   94.067
33-4-4                   94.068
33-4-5                   94.069
33-4-6                   94.070
33-4-7                   94.071
33-4-8                   94.072
33-4-9                   94.073
33-4-10                  94.074
33-4-11                  94.075
33-4-12                  94.076
33-4-13                  94.077
33-4-14                  94.078
33-4-15                  94.079
33-4-16                  94.080
33-4-17                  94.081
33-4-18                  94.082
33-4-19                  94.083
33-4-20                  94.084
33-4-21                  94.085
33-4-22                  94.086
33-4-23                  94.087
33-4-24                  94.088
33-4-25                  94.089
33-4-26                  94.090
33-4-27                  94.091
33-4-28                  94.092
33-4-29                  94.093
33-4-30                  94.094
33-4-31                  94.095
33-5-1                   94.110
33-5-2                   94.111
33-5-3                   94.112
33-6-1                   94.125
33-6-2                   94.126
33-6-3                   94.127
33-6-4                   94.128
33-6-5                   94.129
33-6-6                   94.130
33-6-7                   94.131
33-6-8                   94.132
33-7-1                   94.145
33-7-2                   94.146
33-7-3                   94.147
33-7-4                   94.148
33-7-6                   94.150
33-8-1                   94.165
33-8-2                   94.166
33-8-3                   94.167
33-8-4                   94.168
34-1-1                   154.001
34-1-2                   154.002
34-1-3                   154.003
34-1-4                   154.004
34-1-5                   154.006
34-1-6                   154.007
34-1-7                   154.008
34-2-1                   154.020
34-2-2                   154.021
34-3-1                   154.035
34-3-2                   154.036
34-3-3                   154.037
34-3-4                   154.038
34-3-5                   154.039
34-3-6                   154.040
34-3-8                   154.055
34-3-9                   154.056
34-3-10                  154.057
34-3-11                  154.058
34-3-13                  154.070
34-3-14                  154.071
34-3-15                  154.072
34-3-16                  154.073
34-3-17                  154.074
34-3-18                  154.075
34-3-19                  154.076
34-3-22                  154.090
34-3-23                  154.091
34-3-24                  154.092
34-3-25                  154.093
34-3-26                  154.094
34-3-27                  154.095
34-3-28                  154.096
34-3-35                  154.110
34-3-36                  154.111
34-3-37                  154.125
34-4-1                   154.140
34-4-2                   154.141
34-4-3                   154.142
34-4-4                   154.143
34-4-5                   154.144
34-4-6                   154.145
34-4-7                   154.146
34-5-1                   154.160
34-5-2                   154.161
34-5-4                   154.175
34-5-5                   154.176
34-5-6                   154.177
34-5-8                   154.190
34-5-9                   154.191
34-5-10                  154.192
34-5-11                  154.193
34-5-12                  154.194
34-5-13                  154.195
34-5-14                  154.196
34-5-15                  154.197
34-5-16                  154.198
34-5-20                  154.210
34-5-21                  154.211
34-5-22                  154.212
34-5-25                  154.225
34-5-26                  154.226
34-5-27                  154.227
34-5-29                  154.240
34-5-30                  154.241
34-5-32                  154.255
34-5-33                  154.256
34-5-35                  154.270
34-5-37                  154.285
34-5-38                  154.286
34-5-39                  154.287
34-5-40                  154.288
34-5-42                  154.300
34-5-43                  154.301
34-5-45                  154.315
34-5-46                  154.316
34-5-47                  154.317,
                         154.999
34-5-49                  154.330
34-5-50                  154.331
34-5-52                  154.345
34-5-53                  154.346
34-5-54                  154.347
34-5-55                  154.348
34-5-56                  154.349
34-5-57                  154.350
34-5-58                  154.351
34-5-60                  154.365
34-5-61                  154.366
34-5-62                  154.367
34-5-63                  154.368
34-5-65                  154.380
34-5-66                  154.381
34-5-68                  154.395
34-5-69                  154.396
34-5-70                  154.397
34-5-72                  154.999
34-5-73                  154.999
34-5-74                  154.999
Ch. 34, Table 5-A        Ch. 154, App. A
Ch. 34                   Ch. 154, App. B 
36-1-1                   36.030
36-1-2                   36.031
36-1-3                   36.032
36-1-4                   36.033
36-1-5                   36.034
36-1-6                   36.035
36-2-1                   36.050
36-2-2                   36.051
36-2-3                   36.052
36-2-4                   36.053
36-2-5                   36.054
36-2-6                   36.055
36-2-7                   36.056,
                         36.999
36-3-1                   36.070
36-3-2                   36.071
36-3-3                   36.072
36-3-4                   36.073
36-3-5                   36.074
36-3-6                   36.075
36-3-7                   36.999
36-4-1                   36.090
36-4-2                   36.091
36-4-3                   36.092
36-4-4                   36.093
36-4-5                   36.094
36-4-5A                  36.094
36-4-6                   36.095
36-4-6                   36.096
36-4-8                   36.097
36-4-9                   36.098
36-4-10                  36.999
36-5-1                   36.110
36-5-2                   36.111
36-5-3                   36.112
36-5-4                   36.113
36-5-5                   36.114
36-5-6                   36.999
38-1-1                   50.01
38-1-2                   50.02
38-1-3                   50.03
38-1-4                   50.04
38-2-1                   51.01
38-2-2                   51.02
38-2-3                   51.03
38-2-4                   51.04
38-2-5                   51.05
38-2-6                   51.06
38-3-1                   52.001
38-3-2                   52.002
38-3-3                   52.003
38-3-4                   52.004
38-3-5                   52.005
38-3-6                   52.006
38-3-7                   52.007
38-3-8                   52.008
38-3-9                   52.009
38-3-10                  52.010
38-3-11                  52.011
38-3-12                  52.012
38-3-13                  52.013
38-3-14                  52.014
38-3-15                  52.015
38-3-16                  52.016
38-3-17                  52.017
38-3-18                  52.018
38-3-19                  52.019
38-3-20                  52.020
38-3-21                  52.035
38-3-22                  52.036
38-3-23                  52.037
38-3-24                  52.038
38-3-25                  52.039
38-3-26                  52.040
38-3-31                  52.055
38-3-32                  52.056
38-3-33                  52.057
38-3-34                  52.058
38-3-35                  52.059
38-3-36                  52.060
38-3-37                  52.061
38-3-38                  52.062
38-3-39                  52.063
38-3-40                  52.064
38-3-41                  52.065
38-3-42                  52.066
38-3-43                  52.999
38-3-53                  52.080
38-3-54                  52.081
38-3-55                  52.082
38-3-56                  52.083
38-3-57                  52.084
38-4-1                   51.20
38-4-2                   51.21
38-4-3                   51.22
38-4-4                   51.23
38-4-5                   51.23
38-4-6                   51.24
38-4-10                  51.35
38-4-11                  51.36
38-4-12                  51.37
38-4-31                  51.50
38-4-32                  51.51
38-4-33                  51.52
38-4-34                  51.53
38-4-35                  51.54
38-4-37                  51.56
38-5-1                   53.001
38-5-4                   53.015
38-5-5                   53.016
38-5-6                   53.017
38-5-7                   53.018
38-5-10                  53.030
38-5-11                  53.031
38-5-12                  53.032
38-5-13                  53.033
38-5-14                  53.034
38-5-15                  53.035
38-5-16                  53.036
38-5-17                  53.037
38-5-21                  53.050
38-5-22                  53.051
38-5-23                  53.052
38-5-24                  53.053
38-5-25                  53.054
38-5-26                  53.055
38-5-27                  53.056
38-5-28                  53.057
38-5-29                  53.058
38-5-30                  53.059
38-5-31                  53.060
38-5-32                  53.061
38-5-33                  53.062
38-5-34                  53.063
38-5-35                  53.064
38-5-36                  53.065
38-5-37                  53.066
38-5-38                  53.067
38-5-42                  53.080
38-5-43                  53.081
38-5-44                  53.082
38-5-45                  53.083
38-5-46                  53.084
38-5-49                  53.095
38-5-50                  53.096
38-5-51                  53.097
38-5-52                  53.098
38-5-53                  53.099
38-5-54                  53.100
38-5-55                  53.101
38-5-56                  53.102
38-5-57                  53.103
38-5-58                  53.104
38-5-59                  53.105
38-5-65                  53.120
38-5-66                  53.121
38-5-67                  53.122
38-5-68                  53.123
38-5-71                  53.999
38-5-72                  53.999
38-5-73                  53.999
40-1-1                   155.001
40-1-2                   155.002
40-1-3                   155.003
40-1-4                   155.004
40-1-5                   155.005
40-1-6                   155.006
40-1-7                   155.007
40-2-1                   155.020
40-2-2                   155.021
40-3-1                   155.035
40-3-2                   155.036
40-3-3                   155.037
40-3-4                   155.038
40-3-5                   155.039
40-3-6                   155.040
40-3-7                   155.041
40-3-8                   155.042
40-3-9                   155.043
40-3-10                  155.044
40-3-11                  155.045
40-3-12                  155.046
40-3-13                  155.047
40-3-14                  155.048
40-3-15                  155.049
40-3-16                  155.050
40-3-17                  155.051
40-3-18                  155.052
40-3-20                  155.065
40-3-21                  155.066
40-3-22                  155.067
40-3-23                  155.068
40-3-24                  155.069
40-3-25                  155.070
40-3-26                  155.071
40-3-27                  155.072
40-3-28                  155.073
40-3-29                  155.074
40-3-30                  155.075
40-3-31                  155.076
40-4-1                   155.090
40-4-2                   155.091
40-4-3                   155.092
40-4-4                   155.093
40-4-5                   155.094
40-4-7                   155.105
40-4-8                   155.106
40-4-9                   155.107
40-4-10                  155.108
40-4-11                  155.109
40-4-16                  155.120
40-4-17                  155.121
40-4-18                  155.122
40-4-19                  155.123
40-4-20                  155.124
40-4-31                  155.135
40-4-32                  155.136
40-4-33                  155.137
40-4-34                  155.138
40-4-46                  155.150
40-4-47                  155.151
40-4-48                  155.152
40-4-49                  155.153
40-4-50                  155.154
40-4-51                  155.155
40-4-63                  155.170
40-4-64                  155.171
40-4-65                  155.172
40-4-66                  155.173
40-4-67                  155.174
40-4-70                  155.185
40-4-71                  155.186
40-4-72                  155.187
40-4-73                  155.188
40-4-74                  155.189
40-4-76                  155.200
40-4-77                  155.201
40-4-78                  155.202
40-4-79                  155.203
40-4-80                  155.204
40-4-84                  155.215
40-4-85                  155.216
40-4-86                  155.217
40-5-1                   155.230
40-5-2                   155.231
40-5-3                   155.232
40-5-4                   155.233
40-5-5                   155.234
40-5-6                   155.235
40-5-7                   155.236
40-5-8                   155.237
40-5-9                   155.238
40-5-10                  155.239
40-5-11                  155.240
40-5-12                  155.241
40-5-13                  155.242
40-5-14                  155.243
40-5-15                  155.244
40-6-1                   155.255
40-6-2                   155.256
40-6-3                   155.257
40-6-4                   155.258
40-6-5                   155.259
40-6-6                   155.260
40-6-7                   155.261
40-6-8                   155.262
40-6-9                   155.263
40-6-10                  155.264
40-6-11                  155.265
40-6-12                  155.266
40-6-13                  155.267
40-7-1                   155.280
40-7-2                   155.281
40-7-3                   155.282
40-7-4                   155.283
40-7-5                   155.284
40-7-6                   155.285
40-7-7                   155.286
40-7-8                   155.287
40-8-1                   155.300
40-8-2                   155.301
40-8-2.1                 155.301
40-8-2.2                 155.301
40-8-2.3                 155.301
40-8-3                   155.302
40-8-4                   155.303
40-8-5                   155.304
40-8-6                   155.305
40-9-1                   155.320
40-9-2                   155.321
40-9-3                   155.322
40-9-4                   155.323
40-9-5                   155.324
40-9-6                   155.325
40-9-7                   155.326
40-9-8                   155.327
40-9-9                   155.328
40-9-10                  155.329
40-9-11                  155.330
40-9-12                  155.331
40-9-13                  155.332
40-9-14                  155.333
40-9-15                  155.999
40-10-1                  155.345
40-10-2                  155.346
40-10-3                  155.347
40-10-4                  155.348
40-10-5                  155.349
40-10-6                  155.350
40-10-7                  155.351
40-10-8                  155.352
40-10-9                  155.353
40-10-12                 155.365
40-10-13                 155.366
40-10-14                 155.367
40-10-15                 155.368
40-10-16                 155.369
40-10-17                 155.370
40-10-18                 155.385
40-10-19                 155.386
40-10-20                 155.387
40-10-21                 155.388
40-10-22                 155.389
40-10-23                 155.390
40-10-24                 155.405
40-10-25                 155.406
40-10-26                 155.407
40-10-27                 155.408
40-10-28                 155.409
40-10-29                 155.410
40-10-30                 155.425
40-10-31                 155.426
40-10-32                 155.427
40-10-33                 155.428
40-10-34                 155.429
40-10-35                 155.430
40-10-36                 155.431
Ch. 40, By-laws          Ch. 155, App. A
Ch. 40, Figures          Ch. 155, App. B
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
2017-8        - -         132.120,
                          132.122
88-07         8-1-1988    31.130,
                          31.145
90-109        10-8-1990   111.155—
                          111.173
111           11-13-1990  Ch. 74, Sch. I
91-107        10-21-1991  93.15
91-108        10-21-1991  36.070
91-109        10-21-1991  91.028
91-108B       12-2-1991   36.070—
                          36.075
                          72.25—
92-101        4-13-1992   72.28,
                          72.30,
                          72.99
92-106        5-6-1992    51.36,
                          51.52
                          111.115—
92-108        5-26-1992   111.123,
                          111.999
                          34.001—
                          34.018,
                          34.020,
92-114        8-10-1992   34.022—
                          34.025,
                          34.027—
                          34.033
94-107        9-13-1994   72.12
95-105        6-13-1995   31.002
95-108        7-11-1995   94.021,
                          94.999
95-109        9-12-1995   Ch. 75, Sch. I
96-101        6-11-1996   31.005
96-107        9-10-1996   30.46
96-108        10-8-1996   131.10,
                          131.99
96-109        10-8-1996   Ch. 74, Sch. I
96-110        10-8-1996   Ch. 74, Sch. II
97-111        11-12-1997  Ch. 74, Sch. I
98-101        1-13-1998   155.333
98-102        1-13-1998   51.35,
                          51.52
                          36.050—
98-103        3-10-1998   36.056,
                          36.999
98-104        4-14-1998   51.01
                          36.090—
99-104        5-11-1999   36.098,
                          36.999
99-107        6-8-1999    35.01—
                          35.05
99-111        10-12-1999  51.35,
                          51.56
99-114        11-9-1999   36.001—
                          36.017
99-115        12-14-1999  Ch. 74, Sch. I
                          155.001—
                          155.007,
                          155.020,
                          155.021,
                          155.035—
                          155.052,
                          155.065—
                          155.076,
                          155.090—
                          155.094,
                          155.105—
                          155.109,
                          155.120—
                          155.124,
                          155.135—
                          155.138,
                          155.150—
                          155.155,
                          155.170—
                          155.174,
                          155.185—
                          155.189,
                          155.200—
5/9/2000-1    5-9-2000    155.204,
                          155.215—
                          155.217,
                          155.230—
                          155.244,
                          155.255—
                          155.267,
                          155.280—
                          155.287,
                          155.300—
                          155.305,
                          155.320—
                          155.333,
                          155.345—
                          155.353,
                          155.365—
                          155.370,
                          155.385—
                          155.390,
                          155.405—
                          155.410,
                          155.425—
                          155.431,
                          155.999
8/8/2000-1    8-8-2000    152.01—
                          152.08
                          70.22,
9/12/2000-1   9-12-2000   Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                          Ch. 74, Sch. II,
                          Ch. 74, Sch. III
10/10/2000-2  10-10-2000  132.120,
                          132.121
                          Ch. 74, Sch. I,
10/10/2000-3  10-10-2000  Ch. 74, Sch. II,
                          Ch. 74, Sch. III
                          36.125—
02/13/01-1    2-13-2001   36.142,
                          36.999
04/10/01-1    4-10-2001   51.36,
                          51.52
05/08/2001-1  5-8-2001    Ch. 75, Sch. I
05/08/2001-2  5-8-2001    53.135,
                          53.999
05/08/2001-4  5-8-2001    153.009
07/10/2001-1  7-10-2001   Ch. 75, Sch. I
08/14/2001-1  8-14-2001   132.122
01/08/2002-1  1-8-2002    90.009
03/12/2002-1  3-12-2002   10.99
03/12/2002-2  3-12-2002   91.080—
                          91.082
05/14/2002-1  5-14-2002   132.004
                          73.01—
09/10/2002-2  9-10-2002   73.16,
                          73.99
09/17/2002-1  9-17-2002   36.052
11/12/2002-2  11-12-2002  36.052
                          91.022,
11/12/03-1    11-12-2003  91.024—
                          91.027
02/10/2004-2  2-10-2004   91.095
03/09/2004-2  3-9-2004    51.06
                          91.003,
04/13/2004-1  4-13-2004   91.022,
                          91.041
05/11/04-1    5-11-2004   35.20
10/11/2005-1  10-11-2005  51.36,
                          51.52
                          155.038,
                          155.040,
                          155.122,
02/14/2006-1  2-14-2006   155.301,
                          155.302,
                          155.333,
                          155.427
                          153.002,
                          153.005,
03/14/2006-1  3-14-2006   153.009,
                          153.020,
                          153.022
                          92.20—
06/13/2006-2  6-13-2006   92.22,
                          92.99
                          92.20—
04/10/07-2    4-10-2007   92.22,
                          92.99
06/12/2007-10 6-12-2007   Ch. 75, Sch. II
07/10/07-1    7-10-2007   10.99
08/14/07-2    8-14-2007   Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                          Ch. 74, Sch. II
08/14/07-3    8-14-2007   30.09
10/09/07-1    10-9-2007   31.077
04/08/2008-1  4-8-2008    51.35
04/08/2008-2  4-8-2008    150.01,
                          150.02
07/08/2008-2  7-8-2008    111.185
08/12/2008-1  8-12-2008   30.07
08/12/2008-2  8-12-2008   111.186—
                          111.204
11/12/08-1    11-12-2008  71.15—
                          71.20
12/09/2008-2  12-9-2008   Ch. 75, Sch. I
05/12/2009-2  5-12-2009   Ch. 75, Sch. I
11/10/2009-3  11-10-2009  132.123
11/10/09-4    11-10-2009  91.020—
                          91.027
                          91.110—
11/10/2009-5  11-10-2009  91.116,
                          91.118—
                          91.123
06/08/2010-2  6-8-2010    Ch. 75, Sch. I
                          31.161,
                          32.01—
                          32.09,
                          154.008,
                          154.035,
                          154.038,
                          154.039,
                          154.074,
08/10/2010-1  8-10-2010   154.094,
                          154.140,
                          154.142,
                          154.144,
                          154.145,
                          154.193,
                          154.240,
                          154.330,
                          154.345
11/09/2010-3  11-9-2010   Ch. 75, Sch. I
03/08/11-1    3-8-2011    31.005
07/12/2011-1  7-12-2011   31.011
                          51.06,
01/10/2012-3  1-10-2012   51.36,
                          51.52
02/14/2012-1  2-14-2012   51.36
                          73.02,
04/10/2012-1  4-10-2012   73.06,
                          73.13,
                          73.99
05/08/2012-1  5-8-2012    34.034
02/12/2013-1  2-12-2013   155.107,
                          155.122
07/09/13-2    7-9-2013    Ch. 74, Sch. I
08/13/13-1    8-13-2013   71.99,
                          Ch. 74, Sch. III
08/13/13-3    8-13-2013   51.36
11/12/13-2    11-12-2013  36.070
12/10/13-2    12-10-2013  111.076,
                          111.078
03/11/14-2    3-11-2014   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                          110.015,
                          110.030—
                          110.045,
                          110.060,
03/31/2014    3-31-2014   110.075,
                          110.090—
                          110.092,
                          110.105—
                          110.118,
                          110.999
05/13/14-2    5-13-2014   51.35
07/08/14-2    7-8-2014    Ch. 75, Sch. I
08/12/14-1    8-12-2014   155.405
09/09/14-1    9-9-2014    Ch. 75, Sch. I
2015-6        7-14-2015   51.36
2015-7        8-11-2015   36.070
2015-8        8-11-2015   36.094
2015-14       11-10-2015  150.04
2015-15       11-10-2015  155.324
2016-1        1-12-2016   153.009
2016-2        4-13-2016   51.36
2016-4        5-10-2016   36.070
2016-10       9- -2016    154.004,
                          154.005
2016-12       10-11-2016  30.46
                          132.090,
2016-14       11-9-2016   132.091,
                          132.999
2017-3        4-10-2017   90.009
                          52.095,
2017-5        6-13-2017   52.096,
                          52.999
                          110.031,
2017-6        6-13-2017   110.034,
                          110.035
2017-7        6-13-2017   30.46
2017-14       9-12-2017   34.105
2017-18       10-10-2017  31.034
                          111.072,
2017-20       10-10-2017  111.078,
                          111.999
2018-25       4-10-2018   110.031
2018-32       7-10-2018   71.16,
                          71.18
                          90.110—
2018-33       7-10-2018   90.116,
                          90.999
                          54.001,
                          54.002,
                          54.015,
2018-36       8-14-2018   54.030—
                          54.037,
                          54.050,
                          54.065,
                          54.080
2018-38       9-11-2018   93.15
2018-39       9-11-2018   94.053—
                          94.055
2018-40       10-9-2018   30.46
2019-02       2-12-2019   30.46
2019-05       3-12-2019   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2019-07       5-14-2019   155.405
2019-08       5-14-2019   31.002
2019-09       5-14-2019   155.051
2019-3        7-9-2019    133.01
2019-16       9-10-2019   Adopting Ordinance
2019-17       10-8-2019   110.107
2019-18       11-12-2019  30.09
2019-21       12-10-2019  112.01-
                          112.04
2019-22       12-10-2019  Ch. 74, Sch. II
2020-03       2-12-2020   51.36
2020-11       5-12-2020   51.07
2020-12       6-9-2020    110.034
2020-16       7-14-2020   94.065
2020-22       8-11-2020   155.053
2020-29       11-17-2020  31.012
2021-01       1-12-2021   110.107
2021-10       6-8-2021    36.036
                          54.002,
2021-12       8-11-2021   54.015,
                          54.031—
                          54.034
2021-15       9-14-2021   51.06
2021-16       9-14-2021   35.50—
                          35.57
2022-09       10-11-2022  51.36,
                          51.52
2022-12       12-13-2022  Ch. 74, Sch. III
                          155.021,
2023-02       2-14-2023   155.109,
                          155.124
2023-03       2-14-2023   155.500 -
                          155.506
2023-04       2-14-2023   150.02
2023-05       2-14-2023   111.205
2023-14       7-11-2023   34.036
2023-16       11-14-2023  34.036
2023-20       12-12-2023  51.36,
                          51.52
                          33.001—
                          33.003,
                          33.010—
                          33.014,
                          33.020—
                          33.024,
                          33.030—
                          33.033,
                          33.040—
                          33.047,
                          33.060—
                          33.066,
2025-02       2-11-2025   33.080—
                          33.095,
                          33.110—
                          33.113,
                          33.120—
                          33.124,
                          33.130—
                          33.137,
                          33.150—
                          33.157,
                          33.170—
                          33.172,
                          Appendices A—
                          F
                         
 
 
 
