NASHVILLE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-6, passed 12-15-2022
State legislation current through Illinois Legislative Service, 2022 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2016-6
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTS TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF NASHVILLE, ILLINOIS.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati Ohio, is from
time to time, adding supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Nashville, Illinois, which supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the City of Nashville, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal publishing Company has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Compiled Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Nashville City Council to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this Ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NASHVILLE,
WASHINGTON COUNTY ILLINOIS, as follows:
   SECTION 1. That the 2016 and subsequent supplements to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Nashville, Illinois, as submitted by American
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, be and the same are adopted by
reference as if set out in their entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the date of
their adoption by the said City Council and approval by the Mayor and the City
Clerk of said City of Nashville, Illinois, is hereby authorized and ordered to
insert such supplements into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in
the Office of the City Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the City of Nashville, Illinois, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
   PASSED by the City Council of the City of Nashville, Washington County,
Illinois on this 1st day of December, 2016.
   APPROVED by me on this 1st day of December, 2016.
                                                                                  
                                          Mayor
ATTEST:
Joyce Sheridan /s/
Joyce Sheridan, City Clerk
 
      Councilman Terry Kozuszek voted         Aye
      Councilman Joshua Fark voted         Aye
      Councilman Doug Hargan voted         Aye
      Councilperson Susan Finke voted         Aye
      Councilman Erik Rolf voted            Aye
      Councilman Dennis Kellerman voted         Aye
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Nashville shall be designated as
the Code of Nashville and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Nashville,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Nashville.
   COUNTY. Washington County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Washington County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE. Any time previous to the day on which
the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any time
after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution, statutes of the State
of Illinois, the ordinances of the City of Nashville, and, when appropriate,
any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Nashville.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Nashville. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the
employ of a city as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PRECEDING AND FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly-authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Art. VII of the Constitution of
the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Art. VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(1978 Code, § 1.04.010) (Ord. 507, passed - -1978)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   (1)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the
last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any
statute now or hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be
excluded.
      (2)   If the day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re- adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
         Statutory reference:
             Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of any ordinance of the city is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by any
ordinance of the city, any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the
ordinances of the city, shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed $750 or by
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Each such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of the
ordinances of the city is committed, continued or permitted by any such person,
and he or she is punishable accordingly.
(1978 Code, § 1.08.010)
(Ord. 508, passed - -1978; Ord. 523, passed - -1978; Ord. 2015-3, passed 5-21-
2015; Ord. 2016-7, passed 12-1-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to impose penalties for ordinance violation of not more
than a fine of $750 or imprisonment for six months, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 et seq.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings; time and place
   
30.02   Rescheduled or reconvened meetings
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Notice of meetings
   
30.05   Failure of news media to receive notice shall not invalidate meetings
   
30.06   Regular meetings; procedure when date changed
   
30.07   Standing committees
   
30.08   Council action pertaining to flood control
   
30.09   Meetings; telephone attendance
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held in the Council
chambers in the City Hall Building on the first and third Thursday in each and
every month, at 7:00 p.m.; provided, however, that when a meeting date falls
upon a regular holiday, then said meeting shall be held on the Thursday
following at the same hour and place.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.010) (Ord. 398, passed - -1969; Ord. 491, passed - -1976)
§ 30.02 RESCHEDULED OR RECONVENED MEETINGS.
   Rescheduled regular meetings, reconvened meetings, or adjourned meetings may
be held at such times as may be determined by the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.020) (Ord. 398, passed - -1969)
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or any three
Aldermen by giving at least 48 hours’ written notice of said meeting, the
purpose for which said meeting has been called, and the official or officials
calling said meeting.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.030) (Ord. 398, passed - -1969; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015)
§ 30.04 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall give public notice of the schedule of regular
meetings at the beginning of each fiscal year, which notice shall state the
regular dates, times, and places of such meetings. Public notice of any special
meetings, of any rescheduled regular meetings, of any reconvened meetings, or
of any adjourned meetings, shall be given at least 48 hours before such
meeting, however, this requirement of public notice of reconvened meetings does
not apply to any case where the meeting is to be reconvened within 24 hours,
nor to any case where announcement of the time and place of the reconvened
meeting was made at the original meeting and there is no change in the agenda.
   (B)   Public notice shall be given by posting a copy of the notice at the
City Clerk’s office in the City Hall. The City Clerk shall also supply a copy
of the notice of the regular meetings, and of any special, rescheduled,
reconvened, or adjourned meetings to any local newspaper of general circulation
or any local radio or television station that has filed an annual request for
such notice, provided, such news media has given the City Clerk an address
within the city at which such notice may be given.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.040) (Ord. 398, passed - -1978; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015)
§ 30.05 FAILURE OF NEWS MEDIA TO RECEIVE NOTICE SHALL NOT INVALIDATE MEETINGS.
   Failure of news media to receive notice shall not invalidate the meeting.
Failure of any news media to receive a notice provided for by this section
shall not invalidate any meeting provided notice was in fact given in
accordance with this section.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.050) (Ord. 398, passed - -1978; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015)
§ 30.06 REGULAR MEETINGS; PROCEDURE WHEN DATE CHANGED.
   If a change is made in regular meeting dates, at least ten days’ notice of
such change shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.060) (Ord. 398, passed - -1978; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015)
§ 30.07 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Standing committee of three created. There is created the following
standing committees of three of the City Council:
      (1)   City Property;
      (2)   Finance;
      (3)   Gas;
      (4)   Police;
      (5)   Streets and Alleys; and
      (6)   Water and Sewer.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.070)
   (B)   Standing committee of one created. There is created the following
standing committees of one of the City Council:
      (1)   Library; and
      (2)   Golf Course.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.080)
   (C)   Standing committees; Mayor appointment authority.
      (1)   The Mayor shall, immediately after the passage of the ordinance
codified in this section and thereafter, at the first regular meeting of each
fiscal year, make appointments to said standing committees.
      (2)   The Mayor shall, unless there is a vacancy in the Office of
Alderman, make such appointments so that each Alderman shall be the Chairperson
of one standing committee of three and serve as a member of two other standing
committee of three. No Alderman shall serve on the Library Committee and the
Golf Course Committee at the same time.
(1978 Code, § 2.04.090)
(Ord. 420, passed - -1969)
§ 30.08 COUNCIL ACTION PERTAINING TO FLOOD CONTROL.
   To qualify the city under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the City
Council:
   (A)   Assures the Federal Insurance Administration that it will enact as
necessary, and maintain in force for those areas having flood hazards, adequate
land use, and control measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent
with the criteria set forth in 44 C.F.R. 60.3;
   (B)   Vests the City Zoning Administrator with the responsibility,
authority, and means:
      (1)   To delineate or assist the Administrator, at his or her request, in
the limits of the areas having special flood hazards on available local maps of
sufficient scale to identify the location of building sites;
      (2)   To provide such information as the Administrator may request
concerning present uses and occupancy of the flood plain;
      (3)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map, and identify flood plain and cooperate
with neighboring communities with respect to management of adjoining flood
plain areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards; and
      (4)   Submit on the anniversary date of the community’s initial
eligibility an annual report to the Administrator on the progress made during
the past year within the community in the development and implementation of
flood plain management measures.
   (C)   Appoints the City Zoning Administrator to maintain for public
inspection and to furnish upon request a record of elevations (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures located in the special flood hazard areas. If
the lowest floor is below grade on one or more sides, the elevation of the
floor immediately above must also be recorded; and
   (D)   Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
(1978 Code, § 2.40.010) (Ord. 472, passed - -1975)
§ 30.09 MEETINGS; TELEPHONE ATTENDANCE.
   Any matter requiring a roll call vote at a meeting of the City Council may
be voted on by an absent Mayor or Alderman/Aldermen via a conference telephone
call between the absent Mayor or Alderman/Aldermen and the rest of the City
Council present at the regular meeting under the following conditions:
   (A)   The absent Mayor or Alderman/Aldermen cannot be physically present at
the regular meeting at which the matter is put to a vote due to circumstances
beyond the control of the Mayor or Alderman/ Aldermen.
   (B)   The absent Alderman/Aldermen has (have) notified the Mayor of the
absence and the reason for the absence at least 48 hours before the meeting is
convened, whenever practicable. In the event the Mayor is to be absent, he or
she shall notify the City Clerk upon the same terms.
   (C)   The voice(s) of the absent Mayor or Alderman/Aldermen on the
conference telephone call, after being identified by the rest of the Board as
belonging to the absent Mayor or Alderman/ Aldermen, shall be simultaneously
broadcast to the public present at the regular meeting and open to the media,
and the absent Mayor or Alderman/Aldermen shall also be able to hear any public
comment regarding the issue elicited at the meeting, if any, before the vote is
taken.
   (D)   The absent Mayor or Alderman/Aldermen, before voting, shall publically
state the reason for not being present at the regular meeting to vote in
person. The absent Mayor shall subsequently state the reason for not being
present at the regular meeting.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall record the manner of participation of the Mayor
or Alderman/Aldermen participating by telephone conference call.
   (F)   The absent Mayor or Alderman/Aldermen shall not be counted in the
determination of a quorum for the meeting.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-1-2017)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Sexual harassment policy
   
31.02   Prevailing Wage Act
   
31.03   Hiring standards for part-time police officers
   
31.04   Membership in JULIE System
   
31.05   State Gift Ban Act
   
31.06   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
City Officials
   
31.15   City Clerk
   
31.16   City Treasurer; bond duties
   
31.17   City Attorney
City Organizations
   
31.30   Police Department
   
31.31   Superintendent of Streets
   
31.32   Playground and Recreation Board
   
31.33   Planning Commission
   
31.34   Public Library
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects  individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the City of Nashville, Illinois, to prohibit harassment of any person by any
municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee, municipal agency or
municipal office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal officials,
municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or municipal
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof.
   (B)   Definition of SEXUAL HARASSMENT. This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made a term or condition of an
individual's employment, either explicitly or implicitly; or
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Verbal harassment. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments,
insults, humor, jokes about: sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual
propositions, threats, repeated requests for dates; or, statements of a sexual
nature about other employees, even outside of their presence.
         (b)   Non-verbal harassment. Suggestive or insulting sounds
(whistling), leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures,
"catcalls," "smacking" or "kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical harassment. touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing,
pinching, brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (e)   Textual/electronic harassment. "Sexting" (electronically sending
messages with sexual content, including pictures or video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (email/text/picture/video messages, intranet/online
postings, blogs, instant messages and posts on social network websites, like
Facebook and Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
   (C)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment. An
employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself or himself
to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as
directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or his position to
the offending employee, and her or his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
      (1)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassment
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
            1.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the City Manager or Administrator or the chief elected official of the
municipality.
            2.   The employee experiencing what she or he believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
         (d)   Allegations of sexual harassment made against an elected
official of the governmental unit by another elected official of a governmental
unit. In addition to the methods of reporting included above, an elected
official may request an independent review of a complaint of sexual harassment
by another elected official. The request shall be made to the human resources
director, the City Manager or Administrator or the chief elected official of
the municipality. The official receiving the request shall take immediate
action in keeping with the procurement process of the municipality to retain a
qualified individual or entity for the independent review of the allegations of
sexual harassment in violation of this policy. The outcome of the independent
review shall be reported to the corporate authorities.
      (2)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the location), including, but
not limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
      (3)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations.
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal office shall take any retaliatory action against any municipal
employee or official due to a municipal employee's or official's:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy; or
         (b)   Providing information related to an investigation or testimony
before any public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any
violation of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance with or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy. For purposes of this policy, retaliatory action
means the reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or
transfer or change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal
employee that is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's or official's
involvement in protected activity pursuant to this policy.
      (2)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against, even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (3)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action, and this policy prohibits
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, agency or
other employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law,
rule or regulation; or
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, agency or other employee; or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act or this policy.
      (4)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, before a legislative commission or committee or in any
other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
      (5)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it
is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire
to retaliate against a person because she or he has opposed that which she or
he reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because she or he has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted or
participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
      (6)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge within 300 days of the alleged retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable disciplinary actions or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report.
      (1)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
to accomplish an outcome other than stopping sexual harassment or stopping
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to disciplinary action or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the Illinois State
Police, a State's Attorney, the Attorney General or any other law enforcement
official is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-4-2018; Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-7-2021)
§ 31.02 PREVAILING WAGE ACT.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by “An Act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by the state, county,
city or any public body or any political subdivision or by any one under
contract for public works,” approved June 26, 1941, as amended, (820 ILCS 130/
1, et seq., as amended), the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality
for laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in construction of public
works coming under the jurisdiction of the city is hereby ascertained to be the
same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the Washington
County area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois
as of June, 2018, a copy of that determination being attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all
revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the Department of Labor of the
State of Illinois shall supersede the Department’s June determination and apply
to any and all public works construction undertaken by the city. The definition
of any terms appearing in this section, which are defined in the aforesaid Act,
shall be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages to any work or employment except public works
construction of the city to the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The city shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of the city this determination or any
revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or of
the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The city shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and
to any association of employers and to any person or association of employees
who have filed their names and addresses with the City Clerk requesting copies
of any determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of
workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The city shall promptly file a certified copy of this chapter with the
Department of Labor of the State of Illinois.
   (F)   The city shall cause to be published in The Nashville News a notice
that the prevailing wage ordinance has been adopted, and such publication shall
constitute notice that the determination is effective and that this is the
determination of this public body.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-18-2015; Ord. 2016-2, passed 6-16-2016; Ord. 2017-2,
passed 6-15-2017; Ord. 2018-3, passed 6-21-2018)
§ 31.03 HIRING STANDARDS FOR PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   All police officers, other than those officers who are employed on
a full-time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully complete any
training mandated by the State Law Enforcement Training Standards Board; and
      (2)   Said hiring standards shall be submitted to the State Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board, as required by statute.
   (B)   Employment.
      (1)   Employment generally. The city may employ part-time police officers
from time to time as it deems necessary.
      (2)   Duties.
         (a)   A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
policy manual of the City Police Department, but the number of hours a part-
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted.
         (b)   Part-time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full-time police officers.
         (c)   Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with
the State Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the State Law Enforcement Training Standards Board.
      (3)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   Be of good moral character of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
         (b)   Be at least 21 years of age;
         (c)   Pass a medical examination;
         (d)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
         (e)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
         (f)   Possess no prior felony convictions;
         (g)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. Military must have
been honorably discharged; and
         (h)   Submit to pre-employment drug testing and random drug and
alcohol testing.
      (4)   Discipline.
         (a)   Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary jurisdiction
of the Chief of Police.
         (b)   Part-time police officers serve at the discretion of the city
authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment, and may be
removed by the city authorities at any time.
         (c)   Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules
and policy manual issued by the City Police Department.
      (5)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its publication in pamphlet form.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 8-19-2010; Ord. 2012-3, passed 7-19-2012)
§ 31.04 MEMBERSHIP IN JULIE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Membership agreement approved. The City Council does hereby approve
and authorize the Mayor and Clerk to execute the Joint Utility Locating
Information for Excavators Corporation (JULIE System) membership agreement.
(1978 Code, § 2.44.010)
   (B)   Election to receive messages; basis. The City Council elects to
receive excavation messages from the JULIE System in accordance with § 3.3.2 of
the by-laws of the JULIE System on the basis that the city is expected to
receive substantially less than 800 annual messages.
(1978 Code, § 2.44.020)
   (C)   Service area information to system. The city shall forward necessary
basic information to the JULIE System pertaining to the service area to be
covered.
(1978 Code, § 2.44.030)
   (D)   Notification to Gas Utilities Alliance and JULIE System. The City
Clerk shall notify the JULIE System that the city is a member of the Gas
Utilities Alliance, and notify the Gas Utilities Alliance of the city’s action
concerning JULIE System membership.
(1978 Code, § 2.44.040)
   (E)   Payment of monthly charges. Regular monthly charges shall be paid by
the city to the JULIE System in accordance with the said by-laws.
(1978 Code, § 2.44.050)
(Ord. 547, passed - -1981)
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-7
    Local Registrars of Vital Records, see 410 ILCS 535/7
§ 31.05 STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   Adoption of Act. The State Gift Ban Act, 5 ILCS 425 et seq. is hereby
adopted as required by Section 83 of the Act, 5 ILCS 425/83. The solicitation
or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or accepted under the
State Gift Ban Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or any
employee of the city.
   (B)   Ethics Officer. To the extent authorized by law and to the extent
required by Section 35 of the State Gift Ban Act, 5 ILCS 425/35, the Mayor is
hereby appointed to serve as the Ethics Officer of the city. If the Mayor is
unable or unwilling to act, then upon advice and consent of the City Council,
the Mayor shall appoint someone to act as the Ethics Officer. The Ethics
Officer’s duties shall be as provided in Section 35 of the State Gift Ban Act.
   (C)   Complaints. All complaints for violations of the State Gift Ban Act
and this section shall be filed with the Ethics Commission in accordance with
Section 45(a)(6) of the State Gift Ban Act.
   (D)   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act. Any amendment to the State
Gift Ban Act, 5 ILCS 425/1 et seq. that becomes effective after the passage of
this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and shall be
applicable to the solicitation and acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment
that makes its provisions optional for adoption by cities shall not be
incorporated into the ordinance by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (E)   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of State Gift Ban Act.
      (1)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act, 5
ILCS 425/1 et seq. unconstitutional in its entirety, then this section shall be
repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not
subject to any further appeals or rehearings. The ordinance shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city if the
Act is found unconstitutional by the Illinois Supreme Court.
      (2)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban
Act, 5 ILCS 425/1 et seq. unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of
the remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the
remainder of the Act as adopted by this section shall remain in full force and
effect; however, that part of this section relating to the part of the Act
found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-1-1999)
§ 31.06 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of Sections 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5
ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act,
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section)
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the city to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act by
any officer or employee of the city is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms officer and employee shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances of policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinance or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
it provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this section by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the city.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 5-6-2004)
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Bond. The City Clerk shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum
of $2,000, with two or more securities to be approved by the City Council,
conditioned that he or she will well and truly perform his or her duties as
City Clerk and comply with the ordinances passed or which may be passed in
relation to his or her official duties.
(1978 Code, § 2.08.010)
   (B)   City Council meetings attendance and record keeping.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to attend all regular and
special meetings of the City Council and, upon his or her failure to attend
such meeting, shall be subject to a penalty of $500 to be deducted from his or
her salary.
      (2)   He or she shall keep a correct journal of all the proceedings and
record the same in a minute book kept for that purpose.
      (3)   He or she shall record in a book all ordinances passed from time to
time, and cause the same to be published within one month after they are
passed, or at such earlier time as may be required by law.
(1978 Code, § 2.08.020)
   (C)   Custody of city documents and city seal. The Clerk shall keep and
faithfully preserve all books, papers, and other documents and items belonging
and pertaining to his or her office, and shall also have the custody of all
papers, books, maps, and other documents belonging to the city and not in
actual use of other city officers, and shall be the official custodian of the
seal of the city.
(1978 Code, § 2.08.030)
   (D)   Delivery of communications to the City Council. The Clerk shall
without delay deliver to the Council all communications addressed to the city.
(1978 Code, § 2.08.040)
   (E)   Accounting for city funds.
      (1)   The Clerk shall keep a correct account of all monies received by
him or her for the city, and shall keep a correct account between the city and
the Treasurer by charging him or her with all sums received by him or her, as
exhibited to the City Clerk in his or her duplicate receipts, and crediting him
or her with all the monies paid out by him or her by order of the Council.
      (2)   He or she shall allow the Treasurer such other credits as he or she
may be entitled to by law and the ordinances of the city.
(1978 Code, § 2.08.050)
   (F)   Reports required. The Clerk shall prepare and present to the City
Council monthly reports and an annual report of monies paid out by him or her.
(1978 Code, § 2.08.060)
   (G)   Other duties. The Clerk shall perform such other duties as may be
required of him or her by the ordinances of the city or the resolutions of the
City Council, expressly including, but not limited to, such duties as signature
of vouchers and checks, receiving invoices and statements and paying same upon
proper authorization and issuing licenses.
(1978 Code, § 2.08.070)
(Ord. 294, passed - -1952)
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-7
   Local Registrars of Vital Records, see 410 ILCS 535/7
§ 31.16 CITY TREASURER; BOND DUTIES.
   The City Treasurer shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of
$10,000 with a surety company or two or more individual securities, to be
approved by the City Council, conditioned that he or she will well and truly
perform his or her duties as City Treasurer and comply with ordinances passed
and in full force and effect, or ordinances which may be passed, in relation to
his or her official duties.
(1978 Code, § 2.12.010)
Statutory reference:
   City Treasurer, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-1 through 3-10-6
§ 31.17 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the Office of City Attorney.
(1978 Code, § 2.16.010)
   (B)   Appointed by Mayor. The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 2.16.020)
   (C)   Term. The term of the Office of City Attorney shall be four years and
shall run concurrently with the term of the Mayor.
(1978 Code, § 2.16.030)
   (D)   Legal advisor. The City Attorney shall act as the legal advisor of the
city in all matters pertaining to the city.
(1978 Code, § 2.16.040)
(Ord. 512, passed - -1978)
Statutory reference:
   City Attorney, see 65 ILCS 5/3-7-3
CITY ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.30 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Chief of Police; office created. There is created the Office of
Police Chief.
(1978 Code, § 2.20.010)
      (2)   Chief of Police; appointed by Mayor. The Police Chief shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 2.20.020)
      (3)   Chief of Police; term. The term of Office of the Police Chief shall
be four years and shall run concurrently with the term of the Mayor.
(1978 Code, § 2.20.030)
      (4)   Chief of Police; duties. The Police Chief shall perform all duties
prescribed by the City Council for the preservation of the public peace and
shall enforce all of the laws of the city, the state, and the United States.
(1978 Code, § 2.20.040)
   (B)   (1)   Lieutenant; Office created. There is created in the City Police
Department, the position of Lieutenant.
(1978 Code, § 2.20.050)
      (2)   Lieutenant; designated by Chief of Police. The person filling the
position of Lieutenant shall be designated by the Chief of Police with the
advice and consent of the Mayor and the Police Committee.
(1978 Code, § 2.20.060)
      (3)   Lieutenant; term. The person designated Lieutenant shall serve for
such term as the employing officials of the city shall determine proper.
(1978 Code, § 2.20.070)
      (4)   Lieutenant; duties.
         (a)   The duties of the Lieutenant will be to assist the Chief of
Police in administering policies, procedures, training, investigations, and
such other matters as are assigned to him or her by the Chief of Police.
         (b)   The Lieutenant shall perform the duties of the Chief of Police
during the absence of the Chief.
(1978 Code, § 2.20.080)
(Ord. 512, passed - -1978; Ord. 95-1, passed - -1995)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of the City Marshal, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
   Duties of the Marshal, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-140
§ 31.31 SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the Office of Superintendent of
Streets.
(1978 Code, § 2.24.010)
   (B)   Appointed by Mayor. The Superintendent of Streets shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 2.24.020)
   (C)   Term. The term of Office of the Superintendent of Streets shall be
four years and shall run concurrently with the term of the Mayor.
(1978 Code, § 2.24.030)
   (D)   Duties. The Superintendent of Streets shall be in charge of the repair
and maintenance of all of the city streets and alleys, and he or she shall be
in charge of the maintenance and operation of the city’s garbage and trash
collection and the city’s landfill site.
(1978 Code, § 2.24.040)
(Ord. 512, passed - -1978)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of a street overseer, see 65 ILCS 5/3-7-1
§ 31.32 PLAYGROUND AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Creation; purpose. A Playground and Recreation Board is created in
order to establish, conduct, and maintain a playground and recreation system
for the city.
(1978 Code, § 2.28.010)
   (B)   Powers; statutory authority. The Playground and Recreation Board shall
possess all of the powers and be subject to all of the responsibilities of the
corporate authorities under 65 ILCS 5 Div. 95.
(1978 Code, § 2.28.020)
   (C)   Number of members; appointed by Mayor. The Playground and Recreation
Board shall consist of five persons to be appointed by the Mayor of the city
with the consent of the city.
(1978 Code, § 2.28.030)
   (D)   Term. The term of office for members of the Playground and Recreation
Board shall be five years or until their successors are appointed and have
qualified, and appointments to the Board shall be made such that the term of
one member shall expire annually.
(1978 Code, § 2.28.040)
   (E)   Vacancy; Mayor to appoint successor. If a vacancy occurs in the office
of any Board member, the Mayor shall appoint a successor to serve for the
unexpired term.
(1978 Code, § 2.28.050)
   (F)   Members shall serve without compensation. The members of the
Playground and Recreation Board shall serve without compensation.
(1978 Code, § 2.28.060)
(Ord. 363, passed - -1966; Ord. 408, passed - -1970; Ord. 509, passed 2-16-
1978)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to establish a Playground and Recreation Board, see 65
ILCS 5/11-95-3
§ 31.33 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation; purpose. In order that adequate provisions be made for the
preparation of a comprehensive city plan for the guidance, direction, and
control of the growth and development of the city, a Planning Commission, which
shall be a department of the city government, is created under authority of 65
ILCS 5/Art. II and III.
(1978 Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   Composition. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members to
include the following:
      (1)   The Mayor shall be an ex-officio member of said Planning
Commission, with power to vote; and
      (2)   The six other members shall be citizens of the city and shall be
appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their particular fitness for their
duties on said Planning Commission and subject to the approval of the Council.
(1978 Code, § 2.32.020)
   (C)   Terms of Office; compensation.
      (1)   Ex-officio members shall serve for the term of their elective
office. Of the six appointed citizen members, two shall serve for a period of
one year, two for a period of two years, and two for a period of three years.
      (2)   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve without
compensation, except that, if the Council deems it advisable, the Secretary may
receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to time by said Council of
the city and provided for in the appropriation ordinance.
(1978 Code, § 2.32.030)
   (D)   Organization; record keeping; annual report. Immediately following
their appointment, the members of the Planning Commission shall meet, organize,
elect such officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt, and later change or
alter rules and regulations of organization and procedure consistent with city
ordinances and state laws. The Commission shall keep written records of its
proceedings which shall be open at all times to public inspection. The
Commission shall also file an annual report with the Mayor, setting forth its
transactions and recommendations.
(1978 Code, § 2.32.040)
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To prepare and recommend to the Council a comprehensive plan of
public improvements, looking to the present and future development and growth
of the city. Such plan, after its adoption by the Council, shall be known as
the official plan of the city. Such plan shall include reasonable requirements
with reference to streets, alleys, and public areas within the corporate limits
and the contiguous territory outside of not more than one and one-half miles
distant from such limits, and not included in another municipality, such
requirements to become effective whenever such lands shall be subdivided and
annexed to the city after the adoption of such plan;
      (2)   To prepare and recommend to the Council, from time to time, such
changes in the plan or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary by the
Planning Commission;
      (3)   To prepare and recommend to the Council from time to time, plans
and recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
plan;
      (4)   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan;
      (5)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
      (6)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and
other agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
      (7)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of 65 ILCS 5/Art. II, as amended, as may be conferred upon the
Planning Commission by the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 2.32.050)
   (F)   Land subdivisions. Following the adoption of an official plan in the
manner prescribed in division (E)(7) above and the statutes of the state, no
map or plat of any subdivision presented for record, affecting land within the
corporate limits of the city, or in contiguous territory outside of and distant
not more than one and one-half miles from such limits, and not included in any
other municipality, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision thereon shall provide for streets, alleys, and public grounds in
conformity with any requirements made applicable by the official plan.
(1978 Code, § 2.32.060)
   (G)   Improvements. The City Clerk shall furnish the Planning Commission,
for its consideration, a copy of all ordinances, plans, and data relative to
public improvements of any nature. The Planning Commission may report in
relation thereto, if it deems a report necessary or advisable, for the
consideration of the Council.
(1978 Code, § 2.32.070)
   (H)   Expenditure; appropriation by City Council. The Planning Commission
may, at the discretion of the Council, employ necessary help whose salaries,
fees, and other necessary expenses shall be provided for by adequate
appropriation made by the Council from public funds. If the Planning Commission
shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice or services, it may be done
upon authority from the Council and appropriations by the Council therefor.
(1978 Code, § 2.32.080)
(Ord. 342, passed - -1962)
Statutory reference:
   Plan Commissions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 and 11-12-5
§ 31.34 PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   (A)   Established; purpose. There is established and shall be maintained a
free public library for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the city to
be known as the Nashville Public Library.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.010)
   (B)   Board of Trustees appointed by Mayor; powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint a
Board of nine trustees who shall be chosen from the citizens at large with
reference to their fitness for such office, and not more than one member of the
City Council shall be at any one time a member of such Board.
      (2)   The Board shall have such powers, perform such duties, and exercise
such authority conferred by the statutes of the state governing such bodies.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.020)
   (C)   Board of Trustees; term. The members of the Board of Trustees shall
hold their respective offices for such term and in such manner, and may be
removed, and vacancies in the Board shall be filled, as provided by the laws of
the state governing the establishment and maintenance of free public libraries
in cities.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.030)
   (D)   Free use for inhabitants of city. The Library shall be forever free to
the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject always to such reasonable rules
and regulations as the Library Board may adopt in order to render the use of
the Library and reading room of the greatest benefit to the greatest number,
and the Board may exclude from the use of the Library any and all persons who
shall willfully violate such rules. The Board may extend the privileges and use
of such Library to persons residing outside of the city upon such terms and
conditions as the Board may from time to time by its regulations prescribe.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.040)
   (E)   Donations. Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal
property, or real estate for the benefit of the free Public Library shall have
the right to vest the title to the money, personal property, or real estate so
donated in the Board of Trustees to be held and controlled by such Board when
accepted, according to the terms of the deed, gift, devise, or bequest of such
property, and as to such property the Board shall be held and considered to be
special trustees.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.050)
   (F)   Board of Trustees; organization; bond.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees of the Public Library shall, immediately
after appointment, meet and organize by the election of their number president,
by the election of one of their number Treasurer, and by the election of such
other officers as they may deem necessary.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require the Treasurer of the Board to
give a bond to be approved by the Board in an amount to be fixed by the Board
sufficient to cover twice the amount of annual receipts.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.060)
   (G)   Board of Trustees; financial recommendations; tax rate.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees of the Library,
annually and at least three weeks prior to the passage of the annual tax levy
ordinance by the city, to make written recommendations to the City Council as
to the financial requirements of the free Public Library and the rate of tax,
which in the judgment of the Trustees, will be necessary to levy for library
purposes.
      (2)   The City Council shall levy an annual tax sufficient for the
establishment and maintenance of the Library, the rate of which shall be
determined by the City Council but which shall not exceed .60% on each dollar
of the assessed value of the taxable property in the city.
      (3)   All monies for the Public Library shall be paid over by the person
charged with the collection thereof to the Board, in accordance with the
provisions of the statutes of the state relating to public libraries in cities.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.070)
   (H)   Board of Trustees; annual report.
      (1)    Within 60 days after the expiration of the fiscal year of the
city, the Board shall make an annual report to the City Council stating:
         (a)   The condition of their trust on the last day of the year;
         (b)   The various sums of monies received from the Library Fund and
from other sources, and how such monies have been expended and for what
purposes;
         (c)   The number of books and periodicals on hand; and
         (d)   The number of books loaned out, with such other statistics,
information, and suggestions as they may deem of general interest.
      (2)   All such portions of said report as related to the receipt and
expenditure of money as well as the number of books on hand shall be verified
by affidavit. A copy of the report shall be transmitted to the State Library in
accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the state relating to public
libraries in cities.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.080)
   (I)   Injury to Library material; fine. Any person who willfully or
maliciously writes upon, injures, defaces, tears, or destroys any book,
newspaper, plats, pictures, engraving, or statue or piece of furniture
belonging to the Nashville Public Library shall be liable for the cost of
replacing the item.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.090)
   (J)   Failure to return books; fine. Any person who fails to return any book
belonging to such Library in the time and manner required by the laws thereof
shall be liable to a fine which will be maximized at 25% of the cost of an item
when the item was returned. If an item is not returned, the fine will not
exceed the replacement cost of the item.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.100)
   (K)   Fines to be paid to the Nashville Public Library. All fines collected
under the provisions of this section shall be credited to the Library Fund and
be kept as a part of such fund. The librarian shall keep a record of all
receipts from fines and penalties and report them to the Library Board at its
regular monthly meeting.
(1978 Code, § 2.36.110)
(Ord. 217, passed - -1943; Ord. 232, passed - -1945; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Fiscal year
   
32.02   Locally imposed and administered tax
Taxation
   
32.15   Municipal retailers’ occupation tax
   
32.16   Municipal service occupation tax
   
32.17   Municipal use tax
   
32.18   Hotel accommodations tax
Fees
   
32.30   Telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The municipal and fiscal year of the city shall commence on the May 1,
beginning May, 1917, and continuing each year thereafter.
(1978 Code, § 3.04.010) (Ord. 24, passed - -1917)
§ 32.02 LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX.
   (A)   Title. This section is known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally
Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance”.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.010)
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this section apply to the city’s procedures
in connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.020)
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 20 ILCS
2520/1 et seq.
      CITY. The City of Nashville, Washington County, Illinois.
      CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and City Council.
      LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Clerk is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees, or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR to act in the Local Tax Administrator’s stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
section to give full effect to this section. The exercise of such authority by
the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this section and the
Act.
      LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code, being 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq. or fees collected by the city
other than infrastructure maintenance fees.
      NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
      TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
      TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.030)
   (D)   Notices.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit, or other scheduled act of
the Local Tax Administrator.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
         (a)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person’s last known address; or
         (b)   Personal service or delivery.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.040)
   (E)   Late payment. Any notice, payment, remittance, or other filing
required to be made to the city pursuant to any tax ordinance is considered
late unless it is any of the following:
      (1)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
      (2)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.050)
   (F)   Payment. Any payment or remittance received for a tax period is
applied in the following order:
      (1)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.060)
   (G)   Certain credits and refunds.
      (1)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction; however, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
      (2)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund is one
year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made. The
city shall not grant a credit or refund locally imposed and administered taxes,
interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the amounts directly to the
city.
      (3)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest, or penalties paid in error is as follows:
         (a)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in
writing a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
            1.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject
to the claim;
            2.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
            3.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
            4.   The taxpayer’s recalculation accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
            5.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with
the claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest, and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there is no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
         (b)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
            1.   Grant the claim; or
            2.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
         (c)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants in whole or in
part a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or credit
shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365 days
and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of
mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.070)
   (H)   Audit procedure.
      (1)   Any request for a proposed audit pursuant to any local administered
tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this section.
      (2)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The tax;
         (b)   The time period of the audit; and
         (c)   A brief description of the books and records to be made
available for the auditor.
      (3)   Any audit conducted during normal business hours and if the date
and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
      (4)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit is conducted not less than seven days nor more than 30
days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event the taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Administrator.
      (5)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer’s business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
      (6)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or
tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the Tax Administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
      (7)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
      (8)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.080)
   (I)   Appeal.
      (1)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax.
      (2)   The notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   The reason for the assessment;
         (b)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         (c)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         (d)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
      (2)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
      (3)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      (4)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the 45-day period, the tax determination, audit, or assessment becomes a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
      (5)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.090)
   (J)   Hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under division (I) above, the Local Tax
Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      (2)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a
continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack
of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
      (3)   At the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination,
audit, or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings shall not apply.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector is provided with a copy of the written
decision.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.100)
   (K)   Interest and penalties. In the event a determination has been made
that a tax is due and owing, through audit assessment or other bill sent, the
tax must be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
      (1)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 6%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
      (2)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late
filing penalty, of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a
return is imposed, and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due is imposed.
If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the controlling tax
ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice
of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty is assessed equal to 25% of
the total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.110)
   (L)   Abatement. The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty, or failure to
file penalty if the Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause
exists for delay or failure to make a filing.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.120)
   (M)   Installment contracts. The city may enter into an installment contract
with the taxpayer for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance.
The Local Tax Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered
unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice
by the Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer
fails to cure the delinquency within the 14- day period or fails to demonstrate
good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local Tax
Administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.130)
   (N)   Statute of limitations. The city, through the Local Tax Administrator,
shall review all tax returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers
of any amounts due and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving
notice of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide
any tax still due and owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than one
year after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the applicable
period was filed or for the calendar year in which the
return for the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations
is six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due, or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.140)
   (O)   Voluntary disclosure.
      (1)   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer
has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment
from the Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application
with the Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due.
      (2)   A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods
prior to the filing of the application but not more than four years before the
date of filing the application.
      (3)   A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed; however, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application is deemed invalid and void.
      (4)   The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90
days after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date
agreed to by the Local Tax Administrator; however, any additional amounts owed
as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within 90 days after a final determination and the
exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to
by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.150)
   (P)   Publication of tax ordinances.
      (1)   Any locally administered tax ordinance is published via normal or
standard publishing requirements.
      (2)   The posting of a tax ordinance on the Internet shall satisfy the
publication requirements. Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available
to the public upon request at the City Clerk’s office.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.160)
   (Q)   Internal review procedure.
      (1)   (a)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal
review procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid
taxes.
         (b)   Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the
lien is valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect.
      (2)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the Local Tax
Administrator shall:
         (a)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
         (b)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
         (c)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.170)
   (R)   Application. This section is liberally construed and administered to
supplement all of the city’s tax ordinances.
(1978 Code, § 3.28.180)
(Ord. 2001-01, passed - -2001)
TAXATION
§ 32.15 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Imposition; statutory authority. A tax is imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this
city at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course
of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
(1978 Code, § 3.08.010)
   (B)   Monthly report filing required; statutory authority. Every such person
engaged in such business in the city shall file on or before the last day of
each calendar month, the report to the State Department of Revenue required by
35 ILCS 120/3.
(1978 Code, § 3.08.020)
   (C)   Tax payment required. At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed on account of
the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
(1978 Code, § 3.08.030)
(Ord. 402, passed - -1969)
Statutory references:
   Authorizing a municipal retailers’ occupation tax, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1
§ 32.16 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Imposed; statutory authority. A tax is imposed upon all persons
engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of service at the
rate of1% of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by
said service persons either in the form of tangible personal property or in the
form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
(1978 Code, § 3.12.010)
   (B)   Monthly report filing required; statutory authority. Every supplier or
serviceman required to account for municipal service occupation tax for the
benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before the last day of each
calendar month, the report required by 35 ILCS 115/9.
(1978 Code, § 3.12.020)
   (C)   Tax payment required. At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed by division
(A) above.
(1978 Code, § 3.12.030)
(Ord. 403, passed - -1969)
Statutory references:
   Authorizing a municipal service occupation tax, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5
§ 32.17 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   Imposition; rate; statutory authority.
      (1)   A tax is imposed in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-
11-6 upon the privilege of using in the municipality any item of tangible
personal property which is purchased outside the state at retail from a
retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of state government.
      (2)   The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such
tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the Use
Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955, being 35 ILCS 105.
(1978 Code, § 3.16.010)
   (B)   Collection; when. Such tax shall be collected by the State Department
of Revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the
title or certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
(1978 Code, § 3.16.020)
(Ord. 461, passed - -1974)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal use tax, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6
§ 32.18 HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX.
   (A)   Title. This section referred to as the “City Hotel Accommodations Tax
Ordinance”.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.010)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Nashville.
      HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS. A room or rooms in any building or structure kept,
used, or maintained as or advertised or held out to the public to be in an inn,
motel, hotel, apartment hotel, lodging house, dormitory, or place, where
sleeping, rooming, office, conference, or exhibition accommodations are
furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals, in which five or
more such accommodations are used or maintained for guests, lodgers, or
roomers. The term HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS does not include an accommodation which
a person occupies, or has the right to occupy as his or her domicile and
permanent residence.
      PERSON. Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership,
joint venture, club, company business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise. Whenever the
term PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term
as applied to associations shall mean that the owners or part owners thereof,
and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
      TREASURER. The City Treasurer of Nashville.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.020)
   (C)   Gender and number. In this section, unless the text otherwise
requires, words in the singular number include the plural and in the plural
include the singular; words of the masculine gender include the feminine and
the neuter; and when the sense so indicates, words in the neuter gender may
refer to any gender.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.030)
   (D)   Tax imposed. From and after the effective date of this section, there
is imposed and shall immediately accrue and be collected a tax, as herein
provided, upon the rental or leasing of any hotel accommodations in the city at
the rate of 3% of the gross rental or leasing charge.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.040)
   (E)   Lessee’s liability for payment. The ultimate incidence of and
liability for payment of the tax shall be borne by the lessee or tenant of any
such hotel accommodations. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any
and all other taxes. It shall be the duty of every owner, manager, or operator
of hotel accommodations to secure the tax from the lessee or tenant of the
hotel accommodations and pay over to the Treasurer the tax under rules and
regulations prescribed by the Treasurer and as otherwise provided by this
section.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.050)
   (F)   Collection. The tax herein levied shall be secured by the hotel owner,
manager, or operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price,
charge, or rent to which it applies. Every lessee or tenant shall be given a
bill, invoice, receipt, or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge,
or rent payable upon which the hotel accommodations tax shall be stated,
charged, and shown separately. The hotel accommodations tax shall be paid to
the person required to collect it as trustee for and on behalf of the city.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.060)
   (G)   Forms and civil penalties.
      (1)   Every owner, manager, or operator of hotel accommodations within
the city shall file a sworn tax return on a monthly basis with the Treasurer
showing tax receipts received with respect to hotel accommodation space rented
or leased during the preceding monthly period, upon forms prescribed by the
Treasurer. At the time of filing the tax return, the owner, manager, or
operator of hotel accommodations shall pay to the Treasurer all taxes due for
the period to which the tax return applies.
      (2)   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the
rate of 2% per month on the amount of tax which remains unpaid shall be added
and collected. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein
provided, upon the request of the Treasurer, the City Attorney shall bring or
cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of
the city in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.070)
   (H)   Records required. Every owner, manager, or operator of hotel
accommodations in the city shall keep books and records showing the prices,
rents, or charges made or charged, and occupancies taxable under this section.
The Treasurer, or his or her designee, shall at all reasonable times have full
access to the books and records.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.080)
   (I)   Suspension or revocation of city licenses.
      (1)   If the Mayor, after a hearing held by or for him or her, shall find
that any person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this
section, he or she may suspend or revoke all city licenses held by the evader.
      (2)   The owner, manager, or operator of the hotel accommodations shall
have an opportunity to be heard, and such hearing to be held not less than five
days after notice of the time and place of the hearing addressed to the owner,
manager, or operator at his or her last known place of business.
      (3)   The suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or
discharge the owner, manager, or operator of hotel accommodations from his or
her civil liability for the payment of the tax nor for prosecution of such
offense.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.090)
   (J)   Proceeds. All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under
this section, including penalties, shall be paid to the City Treasury and shall
be credited to and deposited in the corporate fund of the city to be used
solely to promote tourism and conventions within the city and otherwise to
attract nonresident overnight visitors to the city.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.100)
   (K)   Effective date. This section shall be effective July 1, 1986, upon its
adoption and publication as required by law.
(1978 Code, § 3.20.110)
(Ord. 613, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
FEES
§ 32.30 TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GROSS CHARGES.
         (a)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the city, and
for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the city, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within the
city, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the city.
         (b)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
            1.   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge
made under:
               a.   The fee imposed by this section;
               b.   Additional charges added to a purchaser’s bill under the
Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 9-222;
               c.   Amounts collected under state statutes;
               d.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act,
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.;
               e.   9-1-1 surcharges; or
               f.   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside
the city;
            3.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the
storage of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of
data or information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment
includes, but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data
processing equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also
includes the usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
            4.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that
is leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
            5.   Charges to business enterprises certified under the Public
Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1, to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the city;
            6.   Charges for telecom munications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
            7.   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is
related to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise
deductible or excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as
determined under applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the
debt deemed to be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay
the tax on that portion during the reporting period in which the payment is
made);
            8.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
            9.   Charges for telecom munications and all services and equipment
provided to the city.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
         (a)   Any municipal street, alley, water, or public right-of-way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements
wherein the city has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit the
location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
         (b)   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal city
property that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall
not include city buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right-of-way.
      RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE, or ANY LIKE TERM.
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse, or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
      SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
      SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems, and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the
customer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities, and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the city through an open video system as defined in
the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 and
following) as now or hereafter amended.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
         (a)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
         (b)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that
installs, owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that
is used or designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Includes every person
engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as
defined in this section. The city may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the city, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the
fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the fee
upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the city.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996 (Pub. Law No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7), as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services, and paging services.
(1978 Code, § 3.24.010)
   (B)   Registration of telecommunication providers.
      (1)   Every telecommunications provider as defined by this section shall
register with the city within 30 days after the effective date of this section
or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a form to be
provided by the city, provided, however, that any telecommunications retailer
that has filed a return pursuant to division (D)(3) below shall be deemed to
have registered in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the city
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by division (D)(3) below, as
the case may be, to the city within 30 days from the date of the occurrence of
any changes in the information provided by the telecommunications provider in
the registration form or most recent return on file with the city.
(1978 Code, § 3.24.020)
   (C)   Municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.
      (1)   A city telecommunications infra structure maintenance fee is
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses within
the city for telecommunications originating or received in the city.
      (2)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorised in this section, the city infrastructure maintenance fee authorized
hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all public
rights-of-way within the city by telecommunications retailers. Imposition of
the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this section does not,
however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or imposition of any
fees otherwise authorized by law.
      (3)   The city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in division (D) below.
(1978 Code, § 3.24.030)
   (D)   Collection, enforcement, and administration of telecommunications
infrastructure maintenance fees.
      (1)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the city infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
      (2)   Unless otherwise approved by the city, the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
city not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in which
a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the city
infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for expenses
incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
      (3)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the city shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the city, which shall
contain such information as the city may reasonably require.
      (4)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected
pursuant to this section and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected
by such telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the city. The charge imposed under division (D)
(1) above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this section shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
      (5)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this section, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the city may request, and telecom munications
retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such credit. However, no
claim for such credit may be made more than three years after the date of the
erroneous payment unless:
         (a)   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made
by the city within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
         (b)   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
      (6)   Amounts paid under this section by telecommunications retailers
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
         (a)   Gross charges for purposes of the 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.,
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
         (b)   Gross receipts for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2;
         (c)   Gross charges for purposes of the municipal telecommunications
tax as prescribed in 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.; and
         (d)   Gross revenue for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in the Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/2-202.
      (7)   The city shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this section
to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to
the city for the city infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of the
amount of the city infrastructure maintenance fee due to the city by the
telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the city plus 5% of the total
amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs incurred by
the city in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed 5% of the total
amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. The sum shall be paid to the
city within 21 days after the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
      (8)   The city, or its designee, may promulgate such further or
additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
section, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to time,
and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant
to division (B) above of such regulations.
(1978 Code, § 3.24.040)
   (E)   Compliance with other laws. Nothing in this section shall excuse any
person or entity from obligations imposed under any law, including but not
limited to:
      (1)   Generally applicable taxes;
      (2)   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or
repair of the public rights-of-way, including standards relating to free
standing towers and other structures upon the public rights-of-way, as
provided;
      (3)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
      (4)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this section
concerning uses or structures not located on, over, or within the right-of-way.
(1978 Code, § 3.24.050)
   (F)   Existing; franchises and license. Any franchise, license, or similar
agreements between telecommunications retailers and the city entered into
before the effective date of this section regarding the use of public rights-
of-way shall remain valid according to and for their stated terms except for
any fees, charges or other compensation to the extent waived.
(1978 Code, § 3.24.060)
   (G)   Enforcement. Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting
any additional or further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of
this section.
(1978 Code, § 3.24.080)
(Ord. 97-8, passed - -1998)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with any of the provisions §
32.30 shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the general penalty in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 3.24.070) (Ord. 97-8, passed - -1998)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER
      
51.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
52.   NATURAL GAS SYSTEM
      
53.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
54.   STORMWATER
      
55.   UNDERGROUND DAMAGE PREVENTION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER
Section
Waterworks and Sewerage System
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Waterworks system authorized as a single utility
   
50.003   Establishment of Utilities Department
   
50.004   Utilities Superintendent
   
50.005   Collector of revenues
   
50.006   City Clerk duties
   
50.007   Application; connection fees
   
50.008   Water applicant with past-due bill
   
50.009   Service charges
   
50.010   Meters
   
50.011   Temporary connections and other charges
   
50.012   Service charges; billing and payment; liability
   
50.013   Notice of delinquency and termination; dispute procedure
   
50.014   Payment; 30-day penalty and liens
   
50.015   Interruption of service
   
50.016   Waterworks and sewerage system regulations
   
50.017   Sewer main connection line; cost and regulations
   
50.018   Sewerage connection; backtrap required
   
50.019   Permits required for alterations and extensions
   
50.020   City repair of system; rights of city
   
50.021   Water bill payment; owner’s responsibility
   
50.022   Separate premises; separate stockpile required
   
50.023   Sprinkling laws
   
50.024   Hydrants
Water Main Extensions
   
50.035   Preliminary approval
   
50.036   Installation; specifications applicable
   
50.037   Plans, specifications, and EPA permit application required
   
50.038   EPA permit prerequisite to construction
   
50.039   Pre-annexation agreement
   
50.040   Permanent easements
   
50.041   Maintenance cost during first year
   
50.042   Water mains
   
50.043   Fire hydrant requirements
   
50.044   Gate valves and boxes
   
50.045   Tapping sleeves and valves
   
50.046   Water mains pressure testing and disinfectant
   
50.047   Inspection of work and materials
   
50.048   As-built plans required
   
50.049   Water mains; city property
   
50.050   Commencement of city ownership responsibility
Sewers
   
50.065   Definitions
   
50.066   Deposit of objectionable waste prohibited
   
50.067   Discharging untreated sewage of other polluted water prohibited
   
50.068   Private sewage disposal system
   
50.069   Public sewer system
   
50.070   Building sewer permit
   
50.071   Sewer application with past-due bill
   
50.072   Building sewers
   
50.073   Using old building sewers in connection with new buildings permitted
   
50.074   Discharges
   
50.075   Hazardous or deleterious waters
   
50.076   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors required
   
50.077   Preliminary treatment or flow- equalizing facilities
   
50.078   Control manhole requirements
   
50.079   Industrial wastewater discharge analysis
   
50.080   Damaging sewage works prohibited; disorderly conduct
   
50.081   Wastewater service charge
   
50.082   Flow measurement
   
50.083   Minimum charge and basic user rate established
   
50.084   Surcharge; rate
   
50.085   Wastewater service charge; formula for computation
   
50.086   Bills; requirements generally
   
50.087   Notice of delinquency and termination; dispute procedure
   
50.088   Charges deemed lien on property
   
50.089   Foreclosure of lien authorized
   
50.090   Revenues
   
50.091   Rates and charges; filing with the county
   
50.092   Inspection
   
50.093   Access to city records
 
   
50.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Sewer Applications
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYING OFFICIALS. The Utility Committee and Superintendent.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF UTILITIES. The Superintendent of combined Waterworks and
Sewerage Department.
   UTILITIES DEPARTMENT. The combined Waterworks and Sewerage Department.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.010) (Ord. 278, passed - -1951)
§ 50.002 WATERWORKS SYSTEM AUTHORIZED AS A SINGLE UTILITY.
   (A)   The existing waterworks system in its entirety, including all
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, and the
existing sewerage system in its entirety, including all improvements and
extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, are declared to be a combined
system.
   (B)   Said combined system shall be maintained and operated as a single
utility and a charge or rate shall be established for the use of such combined
system which shall be reasonable for the use and service of such waterworks and
sewerage system and sufficient to maintain, operate, provide for an adequate
depreciation fund, and pay the principal of and interest on any revenue bonds
which may be issued, and which by their terms are made payable solely from the
revenues of such combined system.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.020) (Ord. 208, passed - -1941)
§ 50.003 ESTABLISHMENT OF UTILITIES DEPARTMENT.
   There is established an executive department of the city to be known as the
Utilities Department, and there is created a City Council standing committee
known as the Utilities Committee. The Department shall be under the general
supervision of the Superintendent of the Utilities Department and shall consist
of the Utilities Committee of the City Council, the Utilities Superintendent,
and such other employees as may be from time to time lawfully provided.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.030) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.004 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor is authorized to appoint, subject to the
confirmation of the City Council, a Utilities Superintendent, and any other
necessary employees.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.040)
   (B)   Duties. The duties of the Utilities Superintendent shall be as
follows.
      (1)   He or she shall see that the waterworks and sewerage system is
conducted on an economical, businesslike basis.
      (2)   He or she shall present each month to the City Clerk all bills
incurred in the maintenance and operation of the Department, except as to those
claims arising out of collections of revenues of the system, and said claims
and expenses shall be paid only upon vouchers drawn against the Waterworks and
Sewerage Fund in accordance with the order of the City Council.
      (3)   He or she shall present to the City Clerk, on or before May 1 in
each year, a complete and detailed report of the condition of the physical
property of the Department for the preceding fiscal year.
      (4)   He or she shall superintend the making of connections for the
waterworks and sewerage system and see that all openings to water and sewerage
lines are properly backfilled and maintained.
      (5)   He or she shall make all repairs occasioned by leaks and breaks in
the water mains and sewer lines, and shut off the water from all premises where
leaks are permitted to go unrepaired.
      (6)   He or she shall examine and test at least semiannually all hydrants
and street valves, and if any are found to be in an unsatisfactory condition,
he or she shall report the same to the City Council.
      (7)   He or she shall superintend the installation of all plumbing and
refuse to permit any consumer whose plumbing is or may become a source of water
waste to use the waterworks system.
      (8)   He or she shall check with the City Clerk at least semiannually the
books and records of said Department, compare the meter readings with the
ledgers, and report his or her general findings to the City Council, including
delinquencies and the general overall financial condition of such system.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.050)
   (C)   Utilities Department Property Management. The Utilities Superintendent
shall have the supervision, management, and control, subject to the supervision
of the City Council, of the maintenance and operation of the municipal
waterworks and sewerage system and preservation of property belonging thereto.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.060)
(Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.005 COLLECTOR OF REVENUES.
   (A)   Collector of Revenues; designated. The City Superintendent of
Utilities and the committee of the City Council in charge of the Utilities
Department shall employ and hire some suitable person to collect the revenues
received from the sale of and charges for the services and facilities furnished
by the Utilities Department and such person shall be known as the Collector of
Revenues.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.070)
   (B)   Salary; term; bond. The person employed as the Collector of Revenues
shall be paid from the funds of the Utilities Department. The wages to be paid
for such employment and services shall be the amount agreed upon by the
employing officials in charge of employing such Collector. The Collector shall
be hired and employed for such term as the employing officials of the city
shall deem proper. The Collector shall furnish such bond as shall be deemed
necessary.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.080)
   (C)   Qualifications and supervision. The Collector may be any elected
official of the city, if the employing officials so choose, and the Collector,
in the performance of his or her duties as outlined and required by the
employing officials, shall perform such duties under the supervision of the
Superintendent and Utilities Committee of the City Council, as named in this
subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.090)
   (D)   Collection of Revenue Office and terms of employment.
      (1)   The Collector shall have office space in the City Hall for the
performance of his or her duties.
      (2)   The employment and terms of such employment of the Collector shall
be subject to the approval and consent of the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.100)
(Ord. 278, passed - -1951)
§ 50.006 CITY CLERK DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, as a part of the duties of his or her office,
prepare, and send out bills to the users of the waterworks and sewerage system
and collect the same monthly. He or she shall collect all monies due the city
for tapping the water mains and sewerage lines of the city and shall keep a
just and true account of all his or her collections in books kept for that
purpose, which books shall be open at all times to the Mayor, any member of the
City Council or the Utilities Superintendent; and he or she shall keep a true
record of all permits issued or granted or any attachments to the waterworks
and sewerage system and of all fees received by him or her therefor.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall report the total receipts of the Utilities
Department to the City Council at its regular meeting each month, which
receipts shall be placed in the Waterworks and Sewerage Fund of the city as
provided by Ord. 209 of the city.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall present to the City Council on or before the May
1 in each year a complete report of all receipts and disbursements and a
detailed statement as to the financial condition of such Department, including
the indebtedness of the Waterworks and Sewerage Department and all monies on
hand in the Waterworks and Sewerage Fund.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall keep the Clerk’s office open for the receipt of
collections due the city at least seven hours each weekday except Saturday, and
four hours on Saturday, such hours to be fixed from time to time by the City
Council.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.120) (Ord. 278, passed - -1951)
§ 50.007 APPLICATION; CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Any prospective customer requesting water service or an existing
customer requesting additional or changed water service shall complete and file
with the City Clerk an application for water service.
      (2)   Said applications will be in a form approved by the City Council,
copies of which may be obtained from the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The fee accompanying the application shall be as follows:
      (1)   New connection to an existing three- fourths of an inch service
line and meter: $450;
      (2)   New connection of one-inch service line and meter: $850; and
      (3)   Reconnection of existing water service at request of user: $15.
   (C)   When a permit has been issued for a water connection, the city will
install the service connection from the main to a point five feet outside the
property line, such service connection to consist of corporation cock, pipe,
and meter; provided, however, that where the service connection exceeds 40 feet
in length and/or applicant requires a service line larger than one inch, then
the customer shall pay $500, plus the total cost of materials and any outside
labor required.
   (D)   (1)   If the prospective customer is a tenant of the premises to be
served, the property owner, or his or her legal representative or designated
agent must countersign the application before the application will be granted.
      (2)   The services of the water system shall be deemed to be furnished to
both the occupant and the owner of the premises receiving such services and
shall be deemed an obligation of both the occupant and the owner of such
premises.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.130) (Ord. 620, passed - -1986; Ord. 94-6, passed - -1994;
Ord. 94-10, passed - -1994; Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-21-2010)
§ 50.008 WATER APPLICANT WITH PAST-DUE BILL.
   (A)   If an applicant for water service has a past- due bill for water
service at a prior location for which he or she is responsible, the new water
connection will not be made until the past-due water bill is paid.
   (B)   If the water bill at the prior location becomes past due after the new
water connection has been made, the new connection will be discontinued until
the past-due bill at the prior location is paid.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.135) (Ord. 99-2, passed - -1999)
§ 50.009 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   There is established an increase of the base rate and a 2% increase in
the rates and charges for the use of and for the service supplied by the
waterworks system of the city beginning November 19, 2019, as follows:
      (1)   Rate 1: Water service only.
         (a)   For the first 1,500 gallons, or part thereof, per month: $20.50;
         (b)   For the next 10,000 gallons per month: $0.90 per 100 gallons;
         (c)   For the next 88,500 gallons per month: $0.80   per 100 gallons;
         (d)   Over 100,000 gallons per month: $0.70 per 100 gallons.
         (e)   Minimum charges shall be $20.50 per month; and
         (f)   Bulk water shall be sold at the plant site at the rate of $0.69
per 100 gallons.
      (2)   Rate 2: Nonresident water service only.
      The charge for property serviced by the water system of the city which
property is located outside of the corporate limits of the city shall be 50%
higher than the rate computed under Rate 1 of this division (A); and that Rate
1 shall hereafter be applicable only to property serviced by the water system
which is located within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Rates and charges beginning September 19, 2016. There is established a
10% increase in the rates and charges for the use of and for the service
supplied by the waterworks system of the city beginning September 19, 2016, as
follows:
      (1)   Rate 1: Water service only.
         (a)   For the first 1,500 gallons, or part thereof, per month: $13.86;
         (b)   For the next 10,000 gallons per month: $0.84 per 100 gallons;
         (c)   For the next 88,500 gallons per month: $0.74 per 100 gallons;
         (d)   Over 100,000 gallons per month: $0.66 per 100 gallons;
         (e)   Minimum charges shall be $13.86 per month; and
         (f)   Bulk water shall be sold at the plant site at the rate of $0.66
per 100 gallons.
      (2)   Rate 2: Nonresident water service only. The charge for property
serviced by the water system of the city which property is located outside of
the corporate limits of the city shall be 50% higher than the rate computed
under Rate l of this division (B), and that Rate 1 shall hereafter be
applicable only to property serviced by the water system which is located
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Rates and charges beginning September 19, 2017. There is established a
5% increase in the rates and charges for the use of and for the service
supplied by the waterworks system of the city beginning September 19, 2017, as
follows:
      (1)   Rate 1: Water service only.
         (a)   For the first 1,500 gallons, or part thereof, per month: $14.55;
         (b)   For the next 10,000 gallons per month: $0.88 per 100 gallons;
         (c)   For the next 88,500 gallons per month: $0.78 per 100 gallons;
         (d)   Over 100,000 gallons per month: $0.69 per 100 gallons;
         (e)   Minimum charges shall be $14.55 per month; and
         (f)   Bulk water shall be sold at the plant site at the rate of $0.69
per 100 gallons.
      (2)   Rate 2: Nonresident water service only. The charge for property
serviced by the water system of the city which property is located outside of
the corporate limits of the city shall be 50% higher than the rate computed
under Rate 1 of this division (C), and that Rate 1 shall hereafter be
applicable only to property serviced by the water system which is located
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (D)   Rates and charges beginning September 19, 2018 and thereafter. There
is established an optional 2% increase in the rates and charges for the use of
and for the service supplied by the waterworks system of the city beginning
September 19, 2019, and each year thereafter.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.140) (Ord. 620, passed - -1986; Ord. 89-6, passed - -1989;
Ord. 91-9, passed - -1991; Ord. 94-6, passed - -1994; Ord. 97-7, passed - -
1997; Ord. 2015-8, passed 9-3- 2015; Ord. 2019-3, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 50.010 METERS.
   (A)   Meters required; operation and repair.
      (1)   All water consumers supplied by the city shall be supplied through
meters only, and shall pay for the water at the rates and in the manner
specified in this subchapter. When any meter by reason of its being out of
repair, or for any cause fails to register the water promptly passing through
the same, the consumer shall be charged at the rate charged for the
corresponding time of the previous year under like conditions.
      (2)   If no previous record exists, then it shall be the duty of the
Superintendent to estimate or determine so far as he or she can the amount of
water consumed during the time the meter fails to operate, and the consumer
shall pay the amount so estimated by the Superintendent.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.150)
   (B)   Meters; access requirements; interfering with authorized personnel
prohibited. The Utilities Superintendent or any person authorized by him or her
shall have ready access to the premises, place, or building where meters may be
located for the purpose of reading same, testing, or repairing the same,
examining, testing the consumption, use, and flow of water, and the use to
which the sewerage system is being put, and it is unlawful for any person or
corporation to interfere with, prevent, or obstruct said Superintendent or any
person authorized by him or her.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.160)
(Ord. 228, passed - -1944) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.011 TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS AND OTHER CHARGES.
   The rate or charge for use of such system, for any purpose not specifically
enumerated in this subchapter or having temporary connections, shall be fixed
from time to time by the City Council, including the cost of tapping into any
water main or sewer line.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.170) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.012 SERVICE CHARGES; BILLING AND PAYMENT; LIABILITY.
   (A)   The said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly on the
first day of each month. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and
the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the
service on such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the
city only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user
of the service are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
   (B)   All bills for service shall be rendered as of the first day of the
month, succeeding the period for which the service is billed, and shall be
payable not later than the close of business on the tenth day of the same
month. A penalty of 5% shall be added to all bills not paid within ten days of
date of billing. When the tenth day of any month is Sunday or a legal holiday,
then such bills for service shall be payable on the next succeeding secular day
without any additional penalty.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.180) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.013 NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY AND TERMINATION; DISPUTE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   If the bill of any water and/or sewer customer shall remain
delinquent for five days or more, the City Clerk shall notify such water and/or
sewer customer and the owner of the property served, in writing, by first class
mail, postage paid, that the water and/or sewer bill is delinquent and that
water and/or sewer service is to be terminated ten days after the day the
notice is mailed.
      (2)   Said notice shall specifically inform such water and/or sewer
customer of the following:
         (a)   The customer may contact the City Clerk to request a hearing on
the delinquent water and/or sewer bill;
         (b)   The said request must be made within three working days of
receipt of said delinquency and termination notice;
         (c)   If said request is made, a hearing will be held within five days
of the request for hearing; and
         (d)   The service will be discontinued within ten days of the mailing
of said notice, if no request for a hearing is made.
   (B)   In the event a customer makes a timely request for a hearing for
nonpayment of a delinquent water and/or sewer bill, the City Clerk shall, at
the time said request is made, advise such person of the time, place, and date
for the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer, said
Hearing Officer to be the Mayor or a responsible person appointed by the Mayor.
The Hearing Officer shall examine evidence submitted by the customer and by the
City Water and Sewer Department and on the basis thereof make findings as to
the status of the customer’s account.
   (C)   (1)   If the findings reached at said hearing are adverse to the
customer, such findings shall be reduced to writing, with a copy thereof to be
forwarded to said customer and to the owner of the property served, by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   Said notice shall also contain the date on which service to the
customer will be discontinued.
   (D)   At the time that the water and/or sewer service is to be discontinued,
the city employee disconnecting the water and/or sewer service to the premises
shall deliver to any occupant of the premises present, or attach to the
premises, a written notice stating that the water and/or sewer service to the
premises has been discontinued for the nonpayment of a delinquent water and/or
sewer bill, the time and date that the service was discontinued and that the
water and/or sewer service will not be reconnected until the delinquent bill
and any presently due water and/or sewer bill is paid, together with a
reconnection fee of $20.
   (E)   In the event water and/or sewer service has been discontinued due to
nonpayment of bills, it shall not be reestablished until said delinquent bill
and any presently due water and/or sewer bill is paid in full, together with a
reconnection charge of $20.
   (F)   Water and/or sewer service to any customer shall not be disconnected
for nonpayment of bills on a Friday or the day before a holiday.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.190) (Ord. 620, passed - -1986; Ord. 87-8, passed - -1987;
Ord. 87-17, passed - -1987; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015; Ord. 2017-12, passed
12-21-2017)
§ 50.014 PAYMENT; 30-DAY PENALTY AND LIENS.
   (A)   In the event the charges for service are not paid within 30 days after
rendition of the bill for such service, such charges shall be deemed and are
declared to be delinquent, and thereafter such delinquencies shall constitute
liens upon the real estate for which such service is supplied.
   (B)   The City Clerk is authorized and directed to file from time to time,
as directed by the City Council, sworn, detailed statements showing such
delinquencies in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds, and the filing of
such statements shall be deemed notice of the lien for payment of the service
rendered.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.200) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.015 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   All connections and water applied for under this subchapter and all the
water used hereunder shall be upon the express condition that the city shall
not be liable, nor shall any claim be made against it, for damage or injury
caused by the breaking of any main, branches, service pipe, apparatus, or
appurtenances connected with said system or plant, or any part or portion of
said plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of stoppage,
alteration, extension, renewals, or breakage.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.210) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.016 WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations set forth in §§
50.018,
50.019, and
50.020 through
50.024 for the government of water users, sewerage system users and plumbers,
are adopted and established.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.220) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.017 SEWER MAIN CONNECTION LINE; COST AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Cost. When a permit has been issued for a sewer connection, the
consumer shall pay the cost of the line from the sewer main into his or her
property.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.240)
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   The consumer shall cause to be laid at least 36 inches beneath the
surface of the ground a copper pipe from the service connection installed by
the city to the water meter, and no pipe shall be obstructed.
      (2)   All pipes shall be inspected and approved by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.250)
(Ord. 228, passed - -1944) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.018 SEWERAGE CONNECTION; BACKTRAP REQUIRED.
   Any person who connects with the sewerage system shall install or cause to
be installed in the outlet service line a back-trap to prevent the backing up
of sewage into basements. Any person now making use of the facilities of the
sewerage system of the city shall install such a backwater trap within 30 days
after the passage, approval, and publication of the ordinance codified in this
subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.260) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.019 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR ALTERATIONS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   No consumer shall supply water to other families or permit them to
take it, except for use on the premises and for the purposes specified in the
application.
   (B)   After water is introduced into any building or upon any premises, no
person shall make or employ any other person to make any tap, or connection
with the work upon the premises, for alteration, repairs, extensions, or
attachments without the written permit of the Water Superintendent as in the
first introduction of water in or on the premises.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.270) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.020 CITY REPAIR OF SYSTEM; RIGHTS OF CITY.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to shut off the water in the mains at any
time for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, or making connections with or
extensions to same, or for the concentration of water in any part of the city
in case of fire; and for the restricting of the use of water in a deficiency in
supply.
   (B)   No claim shall be made against the city by reason of the breaking of
any service pipe or service cock or damage arising out of the shutting off of
water for repairing, laying, or relaying mains, hydrants, or other connections,
for repairing any other part of the system, or for failure of the water supply,
or by increasing the pressure at any time, or from concentration or restricted
use of the water as described above.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.280) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.021 WATER BILL PAYMENT; OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   When buildings are occupied by tenants, the owner will be held responsible
for the payment of water bills.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.300) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.022 SEPARATE PREMISES; SEPARATE STOCKPILE REQUIRED.
   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to connect water pipes into any two
distinct premises or tenements, unless separate distinct stopcocks are placed
on the outside of such premises along the sidewalk opposite the same, nor shall
any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining premises.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.310) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.023 SPRINKLING LAWS.
   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hoses for
sprinkling lawns and gardens, whenever in the opinion of the City Council the
public exigencies require it.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.330) (Ord. 228, passed - -1944)
§ 50.024 HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Hydrant; obstructing access to or interfering with prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall in any manner hinder the access to any stopcock,
hydrant, or valve, or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any
street or alley or public ground or place connected with or part of a water
system or plant, nor pile or place any lumber, brick, or building material or
other article, thing, or hindrance whatsoever within 12 feet of same or so as
to in any manner hinder, delay, or obstruct the members of the Fire Department
in reaching the same.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to interfere with
or to obstruct the flow, retention, storage, or authorized use of water in the
system, reservoir, or plant, or any part thereof, or to injure, deface, remove,
or displace any water main, hydrant, service pipe, water meter, shutoff box,
public fountain, valve, engine, or building connected with the water system or
plant, or to cause, suffer, or permit any of said things to be done.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.340)
   (B)   Hydrant; unauthorized turn on or use prohibited. No person not duly
authorized shall turn the water on at any fire hydrant or service cock, or use
water therefrom when so turned on, under penalty of $50 for each offense, and
the person so using or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall be liable to
pay for same.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.350)
(Ord. 228, passed - -1944; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS
§ 50.035 PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
   It is recommended that preliminary approval of a proposed water main
extension be received from the city prior to the preparation of final plans and
specifications.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.010) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.036 INSTALLATION; SPECIFICATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Water main installation shall be in accordance with Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, most recent edition, as a
minimum standard.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.020) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.037 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND EPA PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to commencing with construction, the contractor/developer
shall deliver three sets of plans and specifications to the Water
Superintendent for review.
      (2)   The plans shall be sealed by an state registered professional
engineer.
   (B)   (1)   When the plans and specifications are delivered to the city, the
contractor/developer shall also deliver a complete permit application to be
approved and signed by the city, and submitted to State EPA, Division of Public
Water Supplies by the contractor/developer.
      (2)   At least one extra copy of the executed, final permit application
shall be delivered to the city.
   (C)   Plans, specifications, and permit applications are required by State
EPA, Division of Public Water Supplies.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.030) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.038 EPA PERMIT PREREQUISITE TO CONSTRUCTION.
   An EPA permit to construct shall be received by the city before construction
starts.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.040) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.039 PRE-ANNEXATION AGREEMENT.
   Prior to approval of the EPA permit to construct, the city may require a
pre-annexation agreement relating to property to be served by the water main
addition.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.050) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.040 PERMANENT EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to approval of the EPA permit to construct, the city will
require a permanent easement at least ten feet in width, centering over the
proposed water main for its full length where the main is not located in
dedicated city rights-of-way.
   (B)   Where the water main is to be constructed on township or county
rights-of-way, the contractor/developer shall obtain all necessary permits from
the authorities having jurisdiction over those rights-of-way, shall provide
required bonds, and a copy of said permits shall be provided to the city before
construction commences.
   (C)   Construction of water mains on state right-of-way is discouraged due
to covenants placed on occupancy of their right-of-way. Where water mains are
to be constructed parallel or adjacent with state right-of-way, all reasonable
efforts shall be made to locate the main on a ten-foot easement next to the
right-of-way.
   (D)   The contractor/developer shall obtain all necessary permits from the
State Department of Transportation for occupancy and/or construction on state
right-of-way. Insurance and bonds required by IDOT shall be provided by the
contractor/developer.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.060) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.041 MAINTENANCE COST DURING FIRST YEAR.
   The applicant (contractor/developer) shall agree to pay (at cost) for any
required maintenance performed by or contracted by the city, during the first
year of ownership of the main by the city. The city may require assurance of
such maintenance in the form of a performance bond.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.070) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.042 WATER MAINS.
   (A)   Size. Water mains shall not be smaller than six-inch diameter. In
areas where the city desires larger than a six-inch main, the city reserves the
right to require the larger main size, and the city will pay for the difference
in price between the six-inch and the larger main.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.080)
   (B)   Pipe materials.
      (1)   Water main pipe material shall be as specified by the city, and
shall be at least equivalent to the following, in accord with applicable AWWA
Standards:
         (a)   Cast iron: Class 150, Thickness Class 22 (cement lined);
         (b)   Ductile iron: Class 52 (cement lined);
         (c)   Asbestos Cement: Class 150; and
         (d)   PVC (rubberring jt.): SDR 21.
      (2)   Where necessary, ferrous metal pipe materials shall be protected
from corrosion.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.090)
   (C)   Depth of cover. A minimum of three and one-half feet of cover shall be
provided over the crown of the water main pipe. In areas subject to future cut
or fill, the depth shall be adjusted such that the required three and one-half-
foot cover will be provided to finish grade.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.100)
   (D)   Backfill material. Select granular backfill shall be provided under
existing roadways or driveways, and shall extend at least four feet beyond the
edge of such roadways and driveways.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.110)
(Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.043 FIRE HYDRANT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fire hydrants shall be provided as specified by the city. In no case
shall fire hydrant spacing be greater than 600 feet. It is desired that fire
hydrants be located at all street intersections.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall be Mueller, six-inch, three-way type, with pumper
connection. The style and manufacture of the hydrants shall be specified by the
city. Threads shall conform to requirements of the City Fire Department.
   (C)   All fire hydrants shall have secondary auxiliary valves. Hydrant leads
shall be six-inch pipe. All valves shall turn counterclockwise to open.
   (D)   Hydrant setting shall comply with Standard Specifications for Water
and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, most recent edition.
   (E)   Final setting of hydrant shall be free from undue hazard (such as
providing proper clearance from curb), and shall be at such height as required
to permit a standard hydrant wrench to make a full 360- degree turn when
removing threads.
   (F)   Hydrants shall be field painted to meet city color requirements. (Do
not paint nozzle threads.)
(1978 Code, § 13.06.120) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.044 GATE VALVES AND BOXES.
   (A)   Gate valves shall be provided as specified by the city. In general,
gate valves and boxes shall be provided at intersections of arterial mains at
interconnections with existing city mains, on dead-end mains (note that dead-
end mains are discouraged), and at overall maximum 800-foot spacing.
   (B)   Gate valves and boxes shall also be provided on each fire hydrant
lead. Valve boxes shall be plumb, and shall be adjusted to finish grade.
   (C)   Gate valves and boxes shall comply with applicable AWWA Standards, and
shall be set in accordance with Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois, most recent edition.
   (D)   All gate valves shall turn counterclockwise to open.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.130) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.045 TAPPING SLEEVES AND VALVES.
   (A)   Tapping sleeves and valves shall be provided where new connections to
existing city mains are made. The sleeve and valve shall be at least as large
as the city main being tapped.
   (B)   The plug removed from the city main being tapped shall be tagged and
turned over to the Water Superintendent. The tag shall bear the following
information: date; contractor; size of main being tapped; and location of tap.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.140) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.046 WATER MAINS PRESSURE TESTING AND DISINFECTANT.
   (A)   Each new water main extension shall be flushed, pressure-tested, and
disinfected. No flushing, pressure-testing, or disinfection shall take place
until the Water Superintendent, or his or her designated representative, is
notified at least 48 hours in advance of flushing, pressure testing, or
disinfecting.
   (B)   When flushing new mains, the city shall provide a pressure gauge and
connection to an adjacent main to be monitored during flushing operations. At
no time during any flushing operation shall pressure on the city main drop
below 20 psi.
   (C)   The water main installed shall pass the hydrostatic pressure test
defined below, as a minimum, prior to final acceptance by the city. The
contractor will be permitted, at his or her option, to backfill completed
sections prior to testing. However, he or she shall notify the Water
Superintendent 48 hours in advance before backfilling if he or she wishes to
exercise this option.
   (D)   It is called to the contractor’s attention that the costs for locating
leaks, excavation, repair, replacement, and re-testing of sections failing to
pass the pressure test shall be borne by the contractor.
   (E)   During testing, the pipe shall be slowly filled with water, care being
taken to expel all air from the pipes. If necessary, the pipes shall be tapped
at high points to vent the air. Permanent air-release valves may be required on
specific projects.
   (F)   (1)   Pressure 50% in excess of working pressure, as measured at the
point of lowest elevation, shall be applied for not less than two hours for
testing of exposed sections of piping; and six hours for sections of piping
that have been previously backfilled prior to testing.
      (2)   All exposed piping, fittings, valves, hydrants, and joints shall be
carefully examined for defects. Leaking joints shall be remade and then
retested.
      (3)   The minimum test pressure shall be 120 psi. The required test
pressure shall be maintained for the full duration of the test by adding/
pumping water into the main.
   (G)   No pipe installation will be accepted unless and until the leakage,
determined under the specified test pressure, is less than computed with the
following formula.
 
   L = ND (P)0.5
      7,4000
   L = Allowable leakage gallons per hour
   N = Number of joints in line being tested
   D = Nominal pipe diameter inches
   P = Average test pressure, PSIG
 
   (H)   Disinfection by the contractor of the installation shall conform to
the specifications as approved by State EPA, Division of Public Water Supplies.
As a minimum, the disinfectant dosage shall be 50 mg/l of chlorine, in contact
for at least 24 hours, and having a minimum of ten mg/l chlorine residual at
the end of the 24-hour period. Disinfection shall not take place until the
lines have been flushed and satisfactorily pressure-tested.
   (I)   While the disinfectant dosage is present, each valve and hydrant shall
be exercised to bring wetted parts into contact with the disinfectant solution.
   (J)   All chlorine residual tests shall be conducted using the DPD method as
outlined in Standard Methods.
   (K)   (1)   After the disinfectant has been in the main for 24 hours, the
main shall be flushed until the chlorine residual at the extremity of the
addition is equivalent to the chlorine residual in the city supply main. After
that flushing has been completed, the isolation valve to the city supply main
shall be closed, and the contractor shall collect water samples for
bacteriological analysis by a laboratory certified for such work by the state.
      (2)   Bacteriological results must be satisfactory on samples collected
24 hours apart on two consecutive days. The sampling points and number of
samples at each point shall be as specified by State EPA, Division of Public
Water Supplies, or as specified by the city.
   (L)   Bacteriological sampling should not commence after Wednesday or before
Monday if EPA does the bacteriological tests. This is necessary due to the fact
that a minimum of 48 hours is required for the necessary bacteriological
testing.
   (M)   Samples shall be taken from smooth-nosed sampling taps or from copper
piping connected to the new main through a corporation stop. No bacteriological
samples shall be collected from fire hydrants.
   (N)   After the bacteriological samples have passed on two consecutive days
of testing, the contractor shall deliver the completed State EPA, Division of
Public Water Supplies, operating permit application to the city. The operating
permit will be mailed after all conditions have been met and the city is ready
to assume ownership of the lines.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.150) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.047 INSPECTION OF WORK AND MATERIALS.
   All work and materials shall be accessible for inspection by the Water
Superintendent or his or her designated representative.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.160) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.048 AS-BUILT PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to acceptance by the city, the applicant (contractor/
developer) shall provide to the city three sets of accurate as-built plans.
(Include physical ties to the main and valves.)
      (2)   One set of good quality as-built reproducible drawings shall also
be furnished to the city.
   (B)   The as-built plans shall be attested as to accuracy by the developer/
contractor and a registered professional engineer in the state.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.170) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.049 WATER MAINS; CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   After final acceptance, the connected water main and its appurtenances
shall become the property of the city, and any service taps along the main or
its extensions shall be made by the city and shall be subject to all applicable
fees and requirements for such taps.
   (B)   A deed or bill of sale which dedicates ownership, free from all liens
and encumbrances, shall be delivered to the city.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.180) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
§ 50.050 COMMENCEMENT OF CITY OWNERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY.
   City ownership responsibility shall not commence until the State EPA
Division of Public Water Supplies has issued an operating permit; and further,
shall not commence until all conditions described in this subchapter have been
satisfied. At that time, the city shall issue a letter to the contractor/
developer indicating the date of acceptance and the date that the one-year
maintenance warranty commences.
(1978 Code, § 13.06.190) (Ord. 538, passed - -1979)
SEWERS
§ 50.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The City Council.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Nashville.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface, and groundwater drainage.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interests, principal, and coverage of loans, bonds, and the like,
outstanding, and shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the
number of users connected to the wastewater facilities.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq.), as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
(Pub. Law No. 92-500) and (Pub. Law No. 93-243).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Federal Act, and implementing
regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any non-governmental user of publicly- owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      (2)   A user in the divisions listed in this definition may be excluded
if it is determined by the city that it will introduce primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial,
or business establishment or process, or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average workday;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issue under 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); and
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water.
It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it
is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   ORDINANCE. The ordinance codified in this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   PH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in standard methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY-SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary or
combined sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
includes REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, OR NON-INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user as
provided for in this section.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface, and groundwater drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation, and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissible.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flow during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standards Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT. The state participation in the financing of the construction of
treatment works as provided for by the State Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for
making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface, and groundwater drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §§
50.086 through
50.091 and
50.093.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in standard methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated, and shall be 30 years from the date of start-
up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
   USER CLASS. The type of user, either residential or commercial
(nonindustrial) or industrial, as defined in this section.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in §
50.085, and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the debt
service charge, and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge and sometimes is used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER, TREATMENT PLANT, or
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.010) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.066 DEPOSIT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited
in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.020) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.067 DISCHARGING UNTREATED SEWAGE OF OTHER POLLUTED WATER PROHIBITED.
   Discharging untreated sewage or other polluted water prohibited when. It is
unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.030) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.068 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Private disposal system; prohibited; exception. Except as provided in
division s(B) through (G) below, it is unlawful to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.040)
   (B)   Private sewage disposal system; permitted. Where a public sanitary
sewer is not available under the provisions of §
50.069(A), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this division (B) and division (C)
through (H) below.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.050)
   (C)   Permit required; fee. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the
City Council. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the city, and set out in Appendix A which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specification, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
city. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed. The fee is not refundable.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.060)
   (D)   Permit effective; inspection requirements. A permit for a private
sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is
completed to the satisfaction of the city. The city shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within three working days of the receipt of written notice by the city.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.080)
   (E)   Construction requirements. The type, capacities, location, and layout
of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of
the State Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, 225 ILCS 225/1 et
seq., and with the State Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than three acres. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet
unless approved by the State Department of Public Health and the city.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.090)
   (F)   Sanitary operation required. The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no
expense to the city.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.100)
   (G)   Compliance with additional requirements. No statement contained in
division (B) and divisions (C) through (H), shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County or State
Health Departments or other agencies having lawful jurisdiction.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.110)
   (H)   Connection to public sewer required when; procedures. At such time as
a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system, as provided in §
50.069(A), the building sewer shall be connected to said sewer within 60 days
and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and waste
material, which shall be disposed of in a lawful, sanitary, and proper manner,
and the private disposal system shall be filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.130)
(Ord. 503, passed - -1977; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.069 PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Connection with public sewer required. The owner of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley, or
right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located any
public sanitary sewer of the city, is required, at his or her expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so; provided,
that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.120)
   (B)   Public sewer system; permit required for connection or use. No
unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the city.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.140)
(Ord. 503, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.070 BUILDING SEWER PERMIT.
   (A)   Classes of building sewer permits. There shall be four classes of
building sewer permits:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Commercial;
      (3)   Industrial; and
      (4)   Special service areas.
   (B)   Schedule of tap-on fees.
      (1)   Residential. Except as hereinafter set forth in division (B)(4)
below, the sewer tap fee for all existing sewers made within the corporate
limits of the city per residential unit or dwelling: $100.
      (2)   Commercial. Except as hereinafter set forth in division (B)(4)
below, the sewer tap fee for all commercial sewers shall be the greater of the
following:
         (a)   Five hundred dollars; or
         (b)   One dollar and sixty-three cents per gallon times the expected
average daily flow in gallons per day to the extent that the average daily
sewage flow exceeds 300 gallons per day.
      (3)   Industrial. The sewer tap fee for all industrial users is
negotiable between the city and the industrial user.
      (4)   Special service areas. The sewer tap fee for special service areas
shall be as follows.
         (a)   Special service area number one. Areas serviced by the southwest
lift station located at the intersection of West St. Louis Street and
Willowbrook Drive: $550; and
         (b)   Special service area number two. Areas serviced by the “Little
Nashville” lift station and the Enterprise Avenue lift station located along
the State Route 127 North Corridor: the sewer tap fee for special service area
number two shall be the greater of the following formulae:
            1.   Minimum fee: $2,000 per unit;
            2.   Acreage served: $2,050 per acre in the development as platted
and surveyed for the development; or
            3.   One dollar and sixty-three cents per gallon per day per sewer
usage. Such sewerage usage shall be assessed as estimated by the user. The fee
shall be reassessed after the first full year of usage and adjusted based on
actual usage.
   (C)   Credits for service area number two.
      (1)   Sales tax credit. A credit of 25% of the total city sales tax
revenue generated by each user after the first full year of service shall be
applied toward the sewer tap fee assessment. The city sales tax shall be
estimated by the users and applied toward the initial tap fee. The City Utility
Superintendent shall be granted access, as a condition to the city’s provision
of sewerage service to the user, to the sales tax audit after one full year of
operation in order to make adjustments, if necessary, to the user’s previous
estimate.
      (2)   Jobs.
         (a)   A credit shall be applied for each newly created job based on
the following formula: a $300 credit for each newly created job having a Social
Security wage base in excess of $18,700 per year.
         (b)   Such credit shall be based on an estimate by the user at the
time of construction. After one year of usage, the City Utilities
Superintendent shall, as a condition for the city’s provision for sewerage
service to the user, inspect the payroll of the user to make such adjustments
based on actual payroll.
         (c)   To the extent each newly created job generates less than an
annual social security wage base of $18,720, the following credit schedule
shall apply:
            1.   Eighteen thousand seven hundred dollars to $15,000: 85% credit
($225 per job);
            2.   Fourteen thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars to
$10,000: 50% credit ($150 per job);
            3.   Nine thousand nine hundred ninety-nine dollars and $5,000: 25%
credit ($75 per job); and
            4.   Under $5,000: no credit.
         (d)   Job relocation within the city corporate limits shall receive a
50% credit.
   (D)   Actual fee. The highest actual dollar value generated from division
(B) above minus the total credit value generated in division (B) above equals
actual sewer tap fee. In no case shall the actual fee be less than the minimum
fee.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.150) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977; Ord. 95-8, passed - -1995)
§ 50.071 SEWER APPLICATION WITH PAST- DUE BILL.
   (A)   If an applicant for sewer service (residential or industrial) has a
past-due bill for sewer service at a prior location for which he or she is
responsible, the new sewer connection will not be made until the past due sewer
bill is paid.
   (B)   If the sewer bill at the prior location becomes past due after the new
sewer connection has been made, the new connection will be discontinued until
the past-due bill at the prior location is paid.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.175) (Ord. 99-2, passed - -1999)
§ 50.072 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Permit issuance conditions. A building sewer permit will only be
issued and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated
that the downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations, and
wastewater treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately
and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.180)
   (B)   Installation costs. All costs and expense incident to the installation
and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.190)
   (C)   Separate sewer required for each building; exception. A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except that
where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through
an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.200)
   (D)   Materials and construction; specifications applicable.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and Plumbing Code, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city.
      (2)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and the latest edition of the Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.220)
   (E)   Location for entry into building. Whenever possible, the building
sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement
floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in accordance with §
50.074(A), and discharged to the building sewer.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.230)
   (F)   Connection with downspouts or drains prohibited. No person(s) shall
make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains,
or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or
building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.240)
   (G)   Connection with public sewer; conformity with specifications required.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city; or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and the latest edition of the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All
such connections shall be made gas-tight and water- tight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city before
installation.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.250)
   (H)   Installation excavation; barricades and lights required. All
excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.260)
   (I)   Inspection; connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the city.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.270)
   (J)   Installation excavation; restoration required. Streets, sidewalks,
parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the building
sewer installation shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city, at
no expense to the owner.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.280)
(Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.073 USING OLD BUILDING SEWERS IN CONNECTION WITH NEW BUILDINGS PERMITTED.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all requirements
of this subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.210) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.074 DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Restrictions on discharges into sewer; standards. All disposal by any
person into the sewer system is unlawful except those discharges in compliance
with federal standards promulgated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and
more stringent state and local standards.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.290)
   (B)   Discharge of stormwater and industrial cooling water into sanitary
sewer prohibited. No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.300)
   (C)   Discharge of stormwater and industrial cooling water. Stormwater and
all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the city and other agencies having
lawful jurisdiction, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.310)
   (D)   Prohibited discharges; designated. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant; and
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.320)
   (E)   Discharge of hazardous or damaging substances prohibited; prohibited
substances designated.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears
likely in the opinion of the city that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance.
         (b)   In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the city will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies.
      (2)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0
and 65°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron-pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0;
         (i)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as
Hg at any time except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
         (j)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
         (k)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or if
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting slugs as defined in §
50.065.
         (l)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or amenable
to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to
the receiving waters.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.330)
(Ord. 503, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.075 HAZARDOUS OR DELETERIOUS WATERS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
50.074(D) and (E) and/or which are in violation of the standards for
pretreatment provided in Ch. 1, EPA Rules and Regulations, Subchp. D, Water
Programs part 128 - Pretreatment Standards, F.R. Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday,
November 8, 1973, and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the
city may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment,
or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the discharge of wastes to the public sanitary sewer and
sewage treatment plant;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
50.079(C).
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. The owner of the pretreatment or
equalization facilities shall obtain construction and operating permits from
the State Environmental Protection Agency prior to issuance of approval by the
city.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.340) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.076 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city,
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.350) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.077 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities, as mentioned in §
50.075(B), are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.360) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.078 CONTROL MANHOLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes.
   (B)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her in proper and satisfactory operating condition so as
to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (C)   Where multiple processes or discharges are present or contemplated at
an industry, the city shall have the authority to require the owner or person
to furnish and install more than one control manhole with appurtenances and/or
require that all wastewater be discharged through a single control manhole or
structure with appurtenances described herein.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.370) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.079 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Industrial wastewater discharge analysis; required; reports.
      (1)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this subchapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
      (2)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state,
and local standards are being met.
      (3)   The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the
city.
      (4)   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the city.
      (5)   At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.380)
   (B)   Determination; sample taken; sampling methods.
      (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
      (3)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
      (4)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH is
determined from periodic grab samples.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.390)
   (C)   Special agreement authorized. No statement contained in §§
50.074(B) through (E),
50.075 through
50.078, and divisions (A) and (B) above shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an individual waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with §§
50.081 through
50.085 hereof, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system and
industrial cost recovery system.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.400)
(Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.080 DAMAGING SEWAGE WORKS PROHIBITED; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest
under the charge of disorderly conduct.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.410) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.081 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Basis for wastewater service charges. The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
city shall consist of a basic user charge, a debt service charge and applicable
surcharges.
   (B)   Basic user charge. The basic user charge is levied on all users to
recover the operation and maintenance costs (O & M) plus replacement costs (R)
and shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters
for wastes having the following normal domestic concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 204 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids content of 240 mg/l.
   (C)   Basic user charge computation. The basic user charge shall be computed
as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the annual wastewater volume, pounds of BOD, and pounds of
SS to be treated;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
      (3)   Proportion the estimated O & M plus R costs to each use class by
volume, BOD, and SS;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated O & M plus R costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, BOD and SS;
      (5)   Compute costs per 100 gallons for normal domestic strength sewage;
and
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per pound for BOD and SS concentrations in
excess of normal domestic strengths.
   (D)   Debt service charges. The debt service charge is computed by
apportioning the annual debt service as a charge per 100 gallons.
   (E)   Surcharge.
      (1)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations of BOD (204 mg/l) and SS (240 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage
meters for all wastes which exceed the 204 mg/l and 240 mg/l concentrations for
BOD and SS respectively.
      (2)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Utility Superintendent and shall be binding as a
basis for surcharges.
   (F)   Review of service charges.
      (1)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed,
not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the city in
the annual audit report.
      (2)   The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in local capital costs or O & M plus R costs.
   (G)   Notification of rate. The users of the wastewater treatment services
will be notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and
that portion of the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater
operation and maintenance, replacement, and debt service.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.420) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977; Ord. 91-10, passed - -1991)
§ 50.082 FLOW MEASUREMENT.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
100 gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain at his or her expense, water meter of a type
approved by the Utility Superintendent for the purpose of determining the
volume of water obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Utility Superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined
from the metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the Utility Superintendent.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.430) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977; Ord. 91-10, passed - -1991)
§ 50.083 MINIMUM CHARGE AND BASIC USER RATE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Basic user charge.
      (1)   There is established a basic user charge of $0.338 per 100 gallons
of metered water consumption to be applied to all users to recover O & M plus R
costs.
      (2)   This charge consists of $0.308 for operation and maintenance and
$0.030 for replacement.
   (B)   Debt service charge. There is established a debt service charge of
$0.122 per 100 gallons, to each user of the wastewater facility.
   (C)   Rates.
      (1)   (a)   A minimum charge of $9.20 per month is applied to all users
whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   This minimum charge consists of $6.16 for O & M costs, $0.60 for
R costs, and $2.44 for debt service costs.
      (2)   (a)   Usage in excess of 2,000 gallons per month will be charged at
a rate of $0.460 per 100 gallons.
         (b)   This rate consists of $0.308 for O & M costs, and $0.030 for R
costs, and $0.122 for debt service costs.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.440) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977; Ord. 87-18, passed - -1987;
Ord. 91-10, passed - -1991; Ord. 2002-3, passed - -2002; Ord. 2015-9, passed 9-
3-2015)
§ 50.084 SURCHARGE; RATE.
   (A)   Rates. The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as follows.
 
per lb. of BOD5 $1.14
per lb. of SS   $1.14
 
   (B)   Charge calculation. The surcharge for BOD5 and SS shall be calculated
as follows.
 
SCBODi = 0.22 (BODi -204) x Qi x 8.34
SCSSi = 0.18 (SSi - 240) x Qi x 8.34
Sci = SCBODi + SCSSI
Where:
Qi = Total monthly flow volume expressed in million gallons per day
BODi= Biochemical oxygen demand concentration (five-day, 20° C) of waste
expressed in milligrams per liter
SSi = Suspended solids concentration of waste expressed in milligrams per liter
SCBODi = Monthly surcharge in dollars for biochemical oxygen demand for waste
concentrations greater than 204 mg/l
SCSSI = Monthly surcharge in dollars for suspended solids for waste
concentrations greater than 240 mg
Sci = Total monthly surcharge in dollars
 
(1978 Code, § 13.08.450) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977; Ord. 87-18, passed - -1987;
Ord. 91-10, passed - -1991; Ord. 2002-3, passed 2002)
§ 50.085 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE; FORMULA FOR COMPUTATION.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula.
 
CW = CM + ( (Vu - X)* (CU + CD) ) + CS
Where:
CW = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period*
CM = Monthly minimum charge
Vu =Wastewater volume (in hundreds of gallons) for the billing period
X = Allowable consumption (in hundreds of gallons) included in the monthly
minimum charge**
CU = Basic user charge (per 100 gallons) for operation and maintenance, and
replacement
* Billing is monthly
** Based on 2,000 gallons per month
CS = Surcharges, if applicable
 
(1978 Code, § 13.08.470) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977; Ord. 91-10, passed - -1991;
Ord. 2002-3, passed 2002)
§ 50.086 BILLS; REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of
the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to
such premises.
      (2)   The service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the
condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the services
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
   (C)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the City Collector on the
first day of the month succeeding the period for which the service is billed.
   (D)   All sewer bills are due and payable ten days after being sent out. A
penalty of 5% shall be added to all bills not paid by the tenth day after they
have been rendered.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.720) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.087 NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY AND TERMINATION; DISPUTE PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for giving of notice of delinquency and termination and
dispute procedure under this subchapter shall be the same as that provided in §
50.013.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.730) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977; Ord. 87-18, passed - -1987)
§ 50.088 CHARGES DEEMED LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for monthly sewer service remains unpaid for 60 days
after it has been rendered, the City Clerk shall file with the County Recorder
of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the City Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his or her address is known to the city whenever such bill remains
unpaid for the period of 30 days for a monthly bill after it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the City Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in §
50.089.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.740) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.089 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN AUTHORIZED.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment
of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the city. The City
Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the name
of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property for which the bill has remained unpaid 60 days, in the case of a
monthly bill, after it has been rendered.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.750) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.090 REVENUES.
   (A)   Disposition.
      (1)   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the combined Water and Sewage Fund. All such
revenues and monies shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart from
his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
city. All of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to
the City Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the same, or at such
more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the City
Council.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in
the account of the Fund designated as the “Water and Sewage Fund of the City of
Nashville”. The Treasurer shall administer such Fund in every respect in the
manner provided by statute of the Revised Cities and Villages Act, effective
January, 1942.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.760)
   (B)   Accounting; annual report required.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system. At
regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
      (2)   (a)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual
audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the
wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost-recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the industrial cost-recovery system do in fact
meet these regulations.
         (b)   In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the
audit report shall include the following:
            1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater
plant for the current fiscal year;
            2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
            3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
            4.   Number of users connected to the system;
            5.   Number of non-metered users; and
            6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial
users) and volume of waste discharged.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.770)
(Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.091 RATES AND CHARGES; FILING WITH THE COUNTY.
   A copy of this subchapter, properly certified by the City Treasurer, shall
be filed in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of
the city on their properties.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.780) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.092 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Right of entry authorized. The city and other duly-authorized
employees of the city, the State Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The city or its representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil-refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries, beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.790)
   (B)   Safety rules applicable; liability for damage.
      (1)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in §
50.090(A), the city or duly-authorized employees of the city, the State
Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees.
      (2)   The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
50.079(A).
(1978 Code, § 13.08.800)
   (C)   Entry on easements authorized when. The city and other duly-authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly-
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly-negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.810)
(Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.093 ACCESS TO CITY RECORDS.
   The State Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the city
which are applicable to the city system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms special and general
conditions to any state grant.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.820) (Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of any of the provisions of this §§
50.001 through
50.024 not otherwise provided for herein shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 13.04.360)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
50.065 through
50.093, except §
50.080 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit
for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of §§
50.065 through
50.093, or violation of regulations of other agencies having lawful
jurisdiction.
         (b)   Upon revocation of any permit to discharge, the person violating
the ordinance or regulation shall cease and desist discharge of wastewater or
industrial waste to the public sewer system and treatment works, and shall not
continue the discharge in any manner which would violate state, federal or
local pollution control laws and regulations.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.830)
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in this division (C) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
on conviction be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.840)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.065 through
50.093 shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation.
(1978 Code, § 13.08.850)
(Ord. 228, passed - -1944; Ord. 503, passed - -1977)
APPENDIX A: SEWER APPLICATIONS
      RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION
To the City of Nashville:
A. THE UNDERSIGNED, being the _______________ ____________________ properly
located at
                           (owner)         (Owner’s Agent)
___________________   ______________________
   (number)         (street)
DOES HEREBY REQUEST A permit to install and connect a building to serve the
____________________ at said location
(Residence, Commercial Building, and the like)
   1.   The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed
building sewer:
   Number   Fixtures               Number   Fixtures
   _____ Kitchen Sinks            _____Water Closets
   _____ Lavatories               _____ Bath tubs
   _____ Laundry Tubs            _____ Showers
   _____ Urinals               _____ Garbage Grinders
Specify other fixtures ________________________
2.   The maximum number of persons who will use the above fixtures is
____________.
3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the proposed
work is
_____________________.
4.   Plans and specifications for the proposed building sewer are attached
hereunto as Exhibit ‘A’.
B. In consideration of the granting of this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the City Code of the City of
Nashville and of all other pertinent ordinances or regulations that may be
adopted in the future.
      2.   To maintain the building sewer at no expense to the City.
      3.   To notify the City of Nashville when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer, but before any portion of the
work is covered.
Date ____________ Signed ______________
                  (applicant)
$_______________ connection fee paid
$_______________ inspection fee paid
Application approved and permit issued
DATE: _____________   SIGNED: _____________
                     (Approving Authority)
INDUSTRIAL SEWER
CONNECTION APPLICATION
To the City of Nashville:
A.   THE UNDERSIGNED being the _________________________ of the property
located at
                        (Owner, Lessee, Tenant, etc.)
___________________________________ DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to
______________________   an industrial sewer connection serving the
________________________
   (Name of Company)
                     
which company is engaged in _______________________________ at said location.
      1.   A plat of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now
existing is attached hereunto as Exhibit ‘A’.
      2.   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed
under this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit ‘B’.
      3.   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes
produced or expected to be produced at said property, including a description
of the character of each waste, the daily volume, and maximum rates of
discharge, and representative analyses, is attached hereunto as Exhibit ‘C’.
      4.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work
covered by this permit is __________________________.
B.   In consideration of the granting of this permit THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
   1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or
use of the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be adopted
in the future.
   2.   To operate and maintain a control manhole and any waste pretreatment
facilities, as may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public
sewer of the industrial wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times,
and at no expense to the city of Nashville.
   3.   To cooperate at all times with the city of Nashville, and his
representative in their inspecting, sampling, and study of the industrial
wastes, and any facilities provided for pretreatment.
   4.   To notify the city of Nashville immediately in event of any accident,
negligence, or other occurrence that occasions discharge to the public sewers
of any wastes or process waters not covered by this permit.
      Date ____________ Signed ______________
                           (Applicant)
            _____________________________
               (Address of Applicant)
      $_______________ connection fee paid
      $_______________ inspection fee paid
      Application approved and permit granted:
      DATE: _____________   SIGNED: _____________
                           (Approving Authority)
CHAPTER 51: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Compliance required
   
51.02   Prohibited connections
   
51.03   Superintendent of Water
   
51.04   Investigative authority
   
51.05   Authority to discontinue service
   
51.06   Consumer liability
   
51.07   Effective date
Rules and Regulations
   
51.20   General policy
   
51.21   Definitions
   
51.22   Composition of water system
   
51.23   Prohibitions
   
51.24   Survey and investigations required
   
51.25   Protection required
   
51.26   Type of protection required
   
51.27   Approved prevention devices required
   
51.28   Inspection and maintenance requirements
   
51.29   Booster pumps; specifications
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in accordance with
the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If in accordance with the State
Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water
customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water customer
shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location
and in a manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental
Protection Agency, and all applicable local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency, and
local regulations.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.010) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply, other than the regular public water
supply of the city, may enter the supply or distribution system of the city,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the State Environmental Protection Agency. 
(1978 Code, § 13.07.020) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years,
or as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records of
such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five years.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.030) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.04 INVESTIGATIVE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the
Superintendent of Water or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
the information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-
connection control inspection.
   (B)   On demand the owner, lessees, or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he or she
may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property.
   (C)   The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.040) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.05 AUTHORITY TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water of the city is authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains.
   (B)   Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of $1,000 is paid to the city.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be affected when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists.
   (C)   Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
affected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply; provided, that in the reasonable opinion of the
Superintendent of Water or the State Environmental Protection Agency, such
action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of
the public water supply.
   (D)   Neither the public water supply, the Superintendent of Water, or its
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages, or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply
in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination
was with or without notice.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.050) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.06 CONSUMER LIABILITY.
   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained, or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.060) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified in this subchapter shall take effect and be in force
from and after June 1, 1990.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.070)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations are:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
      (2)    To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable
water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
      (3)    To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection
of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or
backsiphonage of contaminants through the customer’s water service connection.
If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or his or her authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water shall
give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device
at each service connection to the premises.
      (2)   The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at his or her own expense; failure, refusal, or inability on the part
of the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or
devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation,
testing, and repair as required in §
51.24(D)(4) below for a period of at least five years.
      (3)   The Superintendent of Water may require the consumer to submit a
cross-connection inspection report to the city to assist in determining whether
or not service line protection will be required. All cross-connection
inspections shall be conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector
certified by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.080)
§ 51.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute, or certified by the
National Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any other water source on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the State Plumbing
Code, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 800 and the State Environmental Protection
Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian, or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross- connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross- connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum, or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances, and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the State Plumbing Code,
77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 654.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley, or
at the curb to, within, and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work, or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge
of plumbing units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems.
PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work, or assemble from
the point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and/or
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks, and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY or a NON-COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type, and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.090) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.22 COMPOSITION OF WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts:
      (1)   The public water supply system; and
      (2)   The consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.100) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.23 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)    Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested, and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the agency.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.110) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.24 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair, and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent of Water or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the consumer to the public
water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and backsiphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and
at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer;
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e);
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs;
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and date completed.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.120) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.25 PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 681. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross- connections that, in the judgment
of the Superintendent of Water and/or the cross-connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   (1)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77
Ill. Adm. Code 890 and the agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653.
      (2)   In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer’s water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
Superintendent of Water determines that no actual or potential hazard to the
public water supply system exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
         (b)   Laboratories;
         (c)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or stormwater
pumping stations;
         (e)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (f)   Chemical plants;
         (g)   Metal plating industries;
         (h)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (i)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         (j)   Car washes;
         (k)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; or
         (l)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.130) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.26 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
51.25(B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(3) of these regulations shall depend on the degree
of hazard which exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
51.25(B)(4) and (B)(5) of these regulations shall be an approved fixed proper
air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant, or
other chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.140) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.27 APPROVED PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute, or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be
in compliance with applicable industry specifications.
   (B)   (1)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (2)   Maintenance, as recommended by the manufacturer of the device,
shall be performed.
      (3)   The manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be available on-site.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.150) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.28 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance, and repairs made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
passed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and the date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.160) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.29 BOOSTER PUMPS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.170) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device is required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained, and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on
the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and, to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities operations.
   (D)   Neither the city, the Superintendent of Water or its agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customers of the city for any injury, damages, or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination of
the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The customer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through and illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss, or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
(1978 Code, § 13.07.180) (Ord. 90-1, passed - -1990)
CHAPTER 52: NATURAL GAS SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Application for natural gas service
   
52.02   Natural gas applicant with past-due bill
   
52.03   Specifications for main and service connections
   
52.04   All service shall be metered
   
52.05   Meters, regulators, fittings, fixtures, and appurtenances connected
with system to be open to inspection
   
52.06   Meter reading conclusive
   
52.07   Test of meters
   
52.08   Separate meters for each distinct building
   
52.09   Meter, regulator, or city-owned equipment damaged
   
52.10   Gas rates
   
52.11   No free gas
   
52.12   Rendition of bills; delinquent bills
   
52.13   Notice of delinquency and termination; dispute procedure
   
52.14   City not liable for an interruption of service of supply
   
52.15   Owner and beneficial owner of real estate liable
   
52.16   Complains
   
52.17   Regulations relative to customer piping in or near buildings
   
52.18   Extension policy
   
52.19   Tampering with meter, regulator, or any parts of the gas system
belonging to the city
   
52.20   Resale and transportation of gas prohibited
   
52.21   Connection charges
   
52.22   Emergency interruption
   
52.23   Third party liability
   
52.24   Officials and city agents
   
52.25   Invalidity of part
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 APPLICATION FOR NATURAL GAS SERVICE.
   (A)   Any new prospective customer requesting new gas service or an existing
customer requesting additional or changed gas service shall complete and file
with the City Clerk an application for natural gas service. The application
will be in a form approved by the Council, copies of which may be obtained from
the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   If the prospective customer is a tenant of the premises to be served,
the property owner, or his or her legal representative or designated agent,
must countersign the application before the application will be granted. The
services of the gas system shall be deemed to be furnished to both the occupant
and the owner of the premises receiving such services, and shall be deemed an
obligation of both the occupant and the owner of any such premises.
   (C)   The connection charge for new gas service is as stated in §
52.21. No charge shall be made for an application to add or change the list of
equipment on the original form. A charge of $20 shall be made for a change in
name only to transfer service, change ownership, or change occupancy.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.010) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 93-2, passed - -1993;
Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 52.02 NATURAL GAS APPLICANT WITH PAST-DUE BILL.
   If an applicant for gas service has a past-due bill for gas service at a
prior location for which he or she is responsible, the new gas connection will
not be made until the past-due gas bill is paid. If the gas bill at the prior
location becomes past due after the new gas connection has been made, the new
connection will be discontinued until the past-due bill at the prior location
is paid.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.015) (Ord. 99-2, passed - -1999)
§ 52.03 SPECIFICATIONS FOR MAIN AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   The city adopts the requirements of the Federal and State Pipeline Safety
Acts, being 49 U.S.C. §§ 60101 et seq. and 220 ILCS 20/1 et seq. respectively,
as its specifications base. Gas service connections made to the mains of the
system of the city shall comply with requirements and regulations set forth
within the Pipeline Safety Acts and related pipeline safety standards.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.020) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.04 ALL SERVICE SHALL BE METERED.
   (A)   No free gas service shall be furnished to any person, firm,
organization, or corporation, public or private, and all rates and charges
shall be nondiscriminatory; provided, that the Council reserves the right to
impose special rates and charges where particular circumstances render the
regular rates inadequate or unjust. If the city would elect to supply itself
with gas for any purpose, regular rates therefor shall be charged against the
city and payment made from the funds thereof to the Gas Fund.
   (B)   All gas service shall be metered with a meter of adequate size to
measure the amount of gas consumed. Meters shall be of standard design and may
be of the diaphragm, rotary or turbine type properly used at the discretion of
the City’s Utilities Superintendent. The measurement pressure base shall be
seven inches water column.
   (C)   All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at all times for the purpose of reading and repairing. All meters
shall be set outside of the buildings where practical. Indoor installations
must be vented with an adequate vent extending to the outside and must be
approved in writing by the Gas Superintendent prior to doing such work.
   (D)   Under no circumstances shall estimated meter readings be used,
excepting in the case of meter failure or proven inaccuracy and then only in
accordance with this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.030) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.05 METERS, REGULATORS, FITTINGS, FIXTURES, AND APPURTENANCES CONNECTED
WITH SYSTEM TO BE OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   At all reasonable hours, meters, regulators, fittings, fixtures, and
appurtenances connected to the system and located on private property shall be
open for inspection by the proper officers or employees of the city. Any part
found to be defective or not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be immediately repaired or corrected. Service may be discontinued without
notice at any time when conditions of the privately-owned facilities create
danger or hazard or found not in compliance with §
52.17.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.040) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 93-2, passed - -1993)
§ 52.06 METER READING CONCLUSIVE.
   (A)   All gas customers shall be liable for the gas consumption as shown by
the meter. Waste, leakage, or other causes not the fault of the city shall be
included under such liability. The meter reading shall be conclusive; provided,
that when a meter is found to have a positive average error ( i.e., is fast, in
excess of 2% in tests made at the request of the customer) the city shall
refund to the customer an amount equal to the excess charged for the gas
incorrectly metered, for a period equal to one-half of the time elapsed since
the previous test, but not to exceed six months. No part of a minimum charge
will be refunded.
   (B)   When a meter is found to have a negative average error, i.e., is slow,
in excess of 2% in tests made at the request of the customer, the city may make
a charge to the customer for the gas incorrectly metered for a period equal to
one-half of the time elapsed since the previous test, but not to exceed six
months. If a meter is found not to register for any period, the city shall
estimate the charge for the gas used by averaging the amounts registered over
similar periods, preceding or subsequent thereto, or over corresponding periods
in previous years. Such action shall be taken in cases of substantial
importance where the city is not at fault for not allowing the incorrect meter
to be in service.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.050) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.07 TEST OF METERS.
   (A)   Any consumer may request the city to make a test of the accuracy of a
meter, then in use on their premises. Such tests will be made by the city
without charge; provided, that such meter has not been tested within five years
preceding such a request. In case a consumer requests an accuracy test of a
meter which has been previously tested within five years, the consumer shall be
required to deposit with the city the sum of $35 for a meter having a capacity
of 450 cfh or less and $150 for a meter having a capacity of more than 450 cfh
to cover the cost of removing, testing and replacing such meter prior to the
making of such test.
   (B)   In the event such meter is found by testing to register incorrectly at
20% full capacity, by more than 2%, then another meter shall be substituted and
the test deposit shall be refunded. Past gas bills shall be adjusted by refund
or credit of such percentage of the amount of the gas bills for a period of not
more than six months previous to such test as prescribed in §
52.06.
   (C)   In the event that the meter is found to be registering correctly, the
consumer shall forfeit the test deposit and such funds shall be deposited in
the gas operating funds of the city.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.060) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.08 SEPARATE METERS FOR EACH DISTINCT BUILDING.
    No person, firm, or corporation shall connect any gas service line or
transmit gas supplied by the natural gas system of the city into more than one
district building from one meter. A garage or similar outbuilding shall be
considered a district building. Each dwelling unit in apartment buildings or
duplex dwellings shall be serviced by individual meters. The City Council shall
have the right to establish special services or service connections as may be
necessary or desired for large users.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.070) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 93-2, passed - -1993)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 METER, REGULATOR, OR CITY-OWNED EQUIPMENT DAMAGED.
   (A)   Whenever a meter, regulator, or other equipment of a service
connection which has been installed by the city is found to have been damaged
for any cause whatsoever, such damages shall become the liability of the
customer who shall pay the city the actual cost of removal, repairing, and/or
replacing of such damaged equipment.
   (B)   In the event such damage has caused inaccurate metering, then such gas
bills shall be corrected in the manner previously provided for in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.080) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.10 GAS RATES.
   (A)   Generally. There shall be, and there is established, monthly rates and
charges for the sale of natural gas and for the use and service supplied by the
natural gas distribution system of the city, based upon the amount of gas
consumed as shown by the gas meters.
   (B)   General service rate.
      (1)   (a)   Facility service charge: $6 per meter per month; and
         (b)   The facility service charge is a flat charge rendered per meter
per month to applicable customers. The charge recognizes fixed cost of natural
gas facilities and operation irrespective of flowing gas. The facility service
charge shall also contain per-meter-per-month surcharges imposed by any local,
state, or federal government having jurisdiction.
      (2)   (a)   Base operating charge: $1.1765 per Mcf; and
         (b)   The base operating charge of $1.1765 per Mcf replaces the prior
base operating rate of $0.60 per Mcf, the current operating expense adjustment
of $0.4265 per Mcf and the current transition cost surcharge of $0.15 per Mcf.
      (3)   The gas charge, base operating charge adjustment, and any surcharge
or taxes, when applicable, are to be added to or deducted from the facility
service charge and base operating charge of this section; these items are
identified as follows.
         (a)   Gas charge. The foregoing and any other rates shall be adjusted
on each billing by adding the total cost of gas purchased divided by the volume
billed to the customers. The result shall be known as the gas charge.
         (b)   Base operating charge adjustment. Any changes in operating
expenses (in addition to changes in cost of gas and taxes) shall be passed
uniformly and directly to all bills rendered after such determination has been
made by the City Council. Changes in the base operating charge shall be limited
to changes in operating expenses demonstrable by changes identified in the most
current fiscal audit or official budget reports of the city.
         (c)   Adjustment for tax. The foregoing rates shall be adjusted when
necessary to fully reflect any tax or surcharge assessed upon the city
municipal gas utility, under the State Gas Revenue Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 615/
1 et seq. or any other authority. Customer bills shall be automatically changed
to reflect an increase or decrease and the rate of any tax.
   (C)   Special rates.
      (1)   The charge for property serviced by the natural gas system of the
city which is located outside of the corporate boundaries of the city shall be
15% higher than those applicable to property serviced by the natural gas system
which is located within the corporate boundaries of the city.
      (2)   The City Council shall have the right to establish special rates or
contracts for gas service to special industrial or special use service.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.090) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 98-2, passed - -1998)
§ 52.11 NO FREE GAS.
   No free gas service shall be furnished to any person, firm, organization, or
corporation, public or private, and all rates and charges shall be
nondiscriminatory; provided, that the City Council reserves the right to impose
special rates and charges in cases where particular circumstances render the
regular rates and charges in cases where particular circumstances render the
regular rates inadequate or unjust. If the city should elect to supply itself
with gas for any purpose, regular rates therefor shall be charged against the
proper department and payment made as by any other customer.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.100) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.12 RENDITION OF BILLS; DELINQUENT BILLS.
   The bill for gas service shall be rendered monthly on the first day of each
month. If the gas bill is not paid, in full, within ten days after its
rendition, the bill becomes delinquent and an additional charge of 5% shall be
added to the bill. If the tenth day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, payment of the bill may be made on the first business day thereafter.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.110) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 87-16, passed - -1987)
§ 52.13 NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY AND TERMINATION; DISPUTE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   If the bill of any gas customer remains delinquent for five days
or more, the City Clerk shall notify such gas customer and the owner of the
property served, in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, that
the gas bill is delinquent and that gas service is to be terminated ten days
after the day the notice is mailed.
      (2)   Said notice shall specifically inform such gas customer of the
following:
         (a)   The customer may contact the City Clerk to request a hearing on
the delinquent gas bill;
         (b)   The said request must be made within three working days of
receipt of said delinquency and termination notice;
         (c)   If said request is made, a hearing will be held within five days
of the request for hearing; and
         (d)   The service will be discontinued within ten days of the mailing
of said notice, if no request for a hearing is made.
   (B)   In the event a customer makes a timely request for a hearing for
nonpayment of a delinquent gas bill, the City Clerk shall, at the time said
request is made, advise such person of the time, place, and date for the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer, said Hearing
Officer to be the Mayor or a responsible person appointed by the Mayor. The
Hearing Officer shall examine evidence submitted by the customer and by the
City Gas Department and on the basis thereof make findings as to the status of
the customer’s account.
   (C)   If the findings reached at said hearing are adverse to the customer,
such findings shall be reduced to writing, with a copy thereof to be forwarded
to said customer and to the owner of the property served, by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Said notice shall also contain the date on which
service to the customer will be discontinued.
   (D)   At the time that the gas service is to be discontinued, the city
employee disconnecting the gas service to the premises shall deliver to any
occupant of the premises present, or attach to the premises, a written notice
stating that the gas service to the premises has been discontinued for the
nonpayment of a delinquent gas bill, the time and date that the service was
discontinued and that the gas service will not be reconnected until the
delinquent bill and any presently due gas bill is paid, together with a
reconnection fee of $50.
   (E)   In the event gas service has been discontinued due to nonpayment of
bills, it shall not be reestablished until said delinquent bill and any
presently due gas bill is paid in full, together with a reconnection charge of
$50.
   (F)   Gas service to a residential customer shall not be disconnected for
nonpayment of bills when the St. Louis National Weather Service forecast for
the following 24 hours forecasts the temperature to be 40°F or lower; nor shall
gas service to any customer be disconnected for nonpayment on a Friday or the
day before a holiday.
   (G)   In the event a resident requests natural gas hook-up after normal
business hours (currently 3:30 p.m.), the hook-up fee shall be $75.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.120) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 87-16, passed - -1987;
Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 52.14 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR AN INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of gas whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules, or for any
operating reason. In all cases, where possible, a reasonable notice of the
circumstances will be given to the customers, but in an emergency or discovery
of any unsafe condition, the gas may be shut off without notice. Such necessary
repair or work will be made by the city as rapidly as may be practical. The
city shall not be held responsible or liable because of any shut off or
discontinuance of service for any direct or resultant damages to any person,
company, or customer.
   (B)   In the event of such discontinuance of gas service, the city will make
every attempt to safeguard the customer and service shall not be renewed until
the city authorities have purged the lines and put into service all automatic
controls and pilots. In no case shall the customer turn on his or her own
service. The purging of lines, relighting pilots, and checking automatic
controls will be done by the city. Where the nature of the customers’
operations are such that an interruption of service might create a hazard or
large economic loss, such customer shall provide facilities for standby service
at his or her discretion.
   (C)   Whenever mains, pipes, service connections, or other facilities of the
gas system are taken up, shut off, or interfered with by reasons of any street
improvements, the city will endeavor to maintain service so far as is
reasonably possible, but will not be directly or indirectly liable for any
interruption, poor pressure, or inconvenience of any kind either to the
customers adjacent or to other customers affected thereby. Direct damages to
property due to such operations shall be either repaired or replaced by the
city without cost to the customer.
   (D)   The city expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons who
may be affected by the discontinuance of service that it will neither ensure
nor be responsible or liable in any manner for any loss or damages direct or
indirect by any reason of any fire, or any other cause and all gas service
furnished shall also be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable accidents,
fire, strikes, riots, or any other cause.
   (E)   Any customer having a facility, operation, process, or activity which
cannot under any or all conditions tolerate temporary interruption of gas
service shall provide an alternate source of on-site fuel or heat for
utilization during such interruption. The responsibility for this alternate
rests fully with the customer.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.130) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.15 OWNER AND BENEFICIAL OWNER OF REAL ESTATE LIABLE.
   The owner of any real estate or improvements thereon, or the owner of the
beneficial interest of any trust holding title to land or improvements served
under this chapter shall be responsible for any delinquent charges for gas
service to such real estate or improvements.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.140) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.16 COMPLAINS.
   (A)   All questions and complaints shall be made to the City Gas Department
who shall be responsible for the proper investigation and record maintenance.
   (B)   Complaints received by the city shall be identified by the name and
address of the customer, the date, nature of the complaint, and remedy and kept
as a permanent record of the city. The Department shall be required to make a
full report to the customer in all such cases, a copy of which shall be filed
with the City Clerk and reported by him or her to the City Council at the next
regular meeting. Any disrespectful or unwarranted acts of the city employees
shall be reported immediately. All employees of the city are strictly forbidden
to demand or accept any tips, gratuity, or other personal compensation for any
services whatsoever rendered during working hours. (1978 Code, § 13.12.150)
(Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.17 REGULATIONS RELATIVE TO CUSTOMER PIPING IN OR NEAR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The responsibility of the city for maintenance and safety of natural
gas piping terminates at the outlet of the meter, except for residential
customers where the meter is located more than three feet from the outside
residential wall, in accordance with state law.
   (B)   (1)   All house piping shall be of rigid construction. The pipe from
the outlet of the meter shall be of black iron pipe of not less than one inch
diameter and shall enter the house wall by means of suitable metal strap or
clamp at a point not more than 18 inches from the outlet connection of the
meter, or if extended along the outside wall, shall be fastened to the wall at
intervals sufficient to make the piping rigid throughout.
      (2)   In instances where piping from meter enters the wall, the interior
end shall be securely fastened so that pipe will not turn when fittings at the
meter are put on. The final tie-in of the gas line to the meter shall be made
by the city. Customer connections between the meter and the outside residential
wall are prohibited.
   (C)   The city adopts as its rules and regulations the safety practices set
forth by the National Fire Protection Association, in the latest revision of
NFPA 54, as though those provisions were fully repeated and set forth in this
chapter.
   (D)   No surface may be constructed or placed over a gas service line or
main which may produce a seal to a building wall or foundation.
   (E)   All buried natural gas piping facilities and distributed appurtenances
shall conform to the latest revisions of NFPA 54 and the minimum federal safety
standards 49 C.F.R. part 192 as though fully set forth in this chapter. The
minimum standards shall apply equally to private buried facilities and
distribution appurtenances. No natural gas piping may be placed or remain
beneath any building except in a specified vented casing.
   (F)   No ground wire of any type may be or remain attached to any natural
gas piping whether it be privately or municipally owned. The prohibition
includes interior piping in buildings.
   (G)   No meter, regulator, or any part of a meter setting may be painted or
otherwise coated by a customer without written approval of the city on a case-
by-case basis. Special coatings are required to prevent shorting of insulators.
   (H)   The city shall not approve customer piping, which as used in this
chapter means piping beyond the outlet of the meter. The city may refuse
connection or discontinue service upon discovering any conditions which may be
in violation of this chapter or which may create any type of safety hazard,
including venting.
   (I)   No additional additions shall be made with any private line or
customer-owned line. Private service lines or customer-owned extensions of
service are prohibited.
   (J)   The city shall have the right and option to demand changes, removal,
or replacement of any pipe, fixture, or apparatus which is considered to be
faulty, inadequate, or hazardous; provided, however, that these provisions
shall not obligate the city in any way or manner. The cost of the above work
shall be fully borne by the property owner. The city shall have the right to
refuse or to discontinue gas service without notice to a customer if the city
finds any installed apparatus or appliances which would be detrimental to the
efficient operation of the existing facilities under the latest revision of
NFPA 54.
   (K)   Any customer-owned lines which are required to be operated and
maintained by the city shall be subject to a monthly charge covering such
operation and maintenance. Said charge shall be an additional monthly amount
equal to the facility charge in effect at the time of billing.
   (L)   Any customer piping outside the building wall shall be protected from
atmospheric corrosion by the customer. It shall be painted at regular intervals
after cleaning. Good quality paint suitable for the purpose shall be used.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.160) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 93-2, passed - -1993;
Ord. 93-7, passed - -1993)
§ 52.18 EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall not be required to extend service within the city
limits, a distance of more than 100 feet per customer and only then when
sufficient funds are available in excess of those required for the proper
operation of the system.
      (2)   (a)   Extension of mains and service outside of the city limits
shall be subject to approval of the Council and shall also be subject to all
the rules and regulations and provisions as provided in this chapter or as may
be amended.
         (b)   All mains, lines, and equipment shall immediately become the
property of the city.
   (B)   (1)   Where service is desired when funds for extensions are not
available and/or when the distance is in excess of 100 feet per customer noted
in this chapter, such extension can be made if the applicant will deposit with
the city the estimated cost of making the extension, less 100 feet when funds
are available, or the entire amount when funds are not available.
      (2)   (a)   The amounts so deposited shall be refunded to such customer
or customers at the rate of $1 per Mcf annually, until the total deposit has
been refunded, or until eight annual payments have been made, whichever event
occurs first. Such deposit shall be interest free.
         (b)   In the event that the amount deposited is greater or less than
the actual cost of the extension, such excess or deficiency shall be corrected
prior to giving service.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.170) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 98-2, passed - -1998)
§ 52.19 TAMPERING WITH METER, REGULATOR, OR ANY PARTS OF THE GAS SYSTEM
BELONGING TO THE CITY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or customer to break
the seal of any meter or in any manner to make alterations, changes or repairs
on the same or to open any mains, laterals, service pipe, stopcocks, valves, or
any part thereof or otherwise tamper with or attempt to do any work on either
or any of them without authority from the city or its properly authorized
agent.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section or
who shall willfully or maliciously injure or damage any property connected with
the gas system of the city shall be subject to the penalty hereinafter
prescribed.
   (C)   Tampering shall include any type of confinement, enclosure, covering
over, surface sealing, or changing of the environment relative to any parts of
the gas system or equipment of the city.
   (D)   Such tampering shall become the liability of the customer who shall
pay the city the actual cost of removal, repairing, and/or replacing equipment
or material.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.180) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 RESALE AND TRANSPORTATION OF GAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The city shall not transport any gas through its facilities other than
that purchased and owned by the city for retail sale to its customers. The
transportation of customer-owned gas is prohibited.
   (B)   No gas shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from
the city supply to any premises other than that for which application has been
made and the gas installed.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.190) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 87-19, passed - -1987)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   All connections to the city gas utility system shall be made by the
city. The city shall charge for connecting three-fourths inch or smaller taps
for the existing main, the sum of $650, for installation of service line up to
80 feet in length. For installation of service lines in excess of 80 feet, the
city will charge on a time and materials basis for installing said line and
equipment.
   (B)   Service lines, regulators, meters, stopcocks, and other fittings
larger than those required for a standard connection shall be paid for by the
applicant at the actual cost to the city at the time of application.
   (C)   Additionally, pursuant to the Gas Revenue Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 615/
1 et seq., the city shall collect a public utility tax of 5% of total
installation charges.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.200) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984; Ord. 93-2, passed - -1993;
Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-21-2010)
§ 52.22 EMERGENCY INTERRUPTION.
   (A)   All customers having alternate fuel capabilities are subject to
interruption at any time an emergency is declared. Such emergency may be
declared at the sole discretion of the city through its Gas Superintendent.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of all customers having alternate fuel
capabilities to maintain alternate fuel equipment in constant working order and
to maintain on-site storage of fuel to meet the customer’s peak requirements
for a period of not less than 24 hours.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.210) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.23 THIRD PARTY LIABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be mandatory that when the city executes a railroad permit,
highway permit, or other hold-harmless document and subsequently employs or
contracts for independent outside services, the city must require that the
outside contractor provide liability insurance to the city which equals or
exceeds the level of coverage afforded to it by the gas utilities alliance of
which the city is a member.
   (B)   The city shall not sell or otherwise convey any material, equipment,
or supplies nor trade or exchange with any plumber, contractor, or private
individual. Such exchanges shall be prohibited excepting between members of the
alliance or between members of the alliance and other major established natural
gas distribution utilities. Where exchanges are vitally necessary and in the
best interests of the city, a release or hold-harmless form, approved by the
gas utilities alliance, must be executed by the recipient with written
documented authority for signing.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.220) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.24 OFFICIALS AND CITY AGENTS.
   In the event that the City Council shall establish a Gas Committee, then,
and in that event, wherever the term City Council or Council shall appear in
this chapter, the same shall be construed to mean Gas Committee except as to
the provisions contained in §
52.13.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.230) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.25 INVALIDITY OF PART.
   In the event any provision or regulation of this chapter shall be in
conflict with any law of the state, this chapter shall be deemed amended to
conform to such law or held invalid, the same shall not have the effect of
invalidating remaining provisions in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.240) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than
$500.
(1978 Code, § 13.12.250) (Ord. 588, passed - -1984)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
53.01   Uncovered garbage
   
53.02   Wind-blown refuse
   
53.03   Deposits on streets
   
53.04   Place for collection
   
53.05   Disposal in city dumpsters
   
53.06   Collection by city
   
53.07   Service charges
   
53.08   Bills
   
53.09   Failure to pay service charge
   
53.10   Exclusive authority to remove items from collection receptacles
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 UNCOVERED GARBAGE.
   It is unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city any
garbage, or other material subject to decay other than leaves or grass,
excepting in a tightly covered water-tight container.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.010) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 WIND-BLOWN REFUSE.
   It is unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes, paper, or
trash of such a material that it can be blown around by the wind anywhere in
the city excepting in a covered container.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.020) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
    It is unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any garbage,
refuse, or ashes on any public street or alley in the city; provided, that this
section shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse, or ashes in
a container complying with the provisions of this chapter preparatory to having
such material collected and disposed of.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.030) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 PLACE FOR COLLECTION.
   It is unlawful to dump or place for collection any garbage, refuse, or ashes
on any premises in the city other than on the premises occupied by the person
so dumping or placing said garbage, refuse or ashes.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.040) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 DISPOSAL IN CITY DUMPSTERS.
    (A)   It is unlawful to dump, dispose of, or deposit garbage or trash in a
dumpster located at any city collection site in any manner that is in violation
of the rules posted at said site.
   (B)   It is unlawful to dispose of any garbage or trash that is generated
outside the corporate limits of the city in any city-owned dumpster.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation other than a
resident who has paid the service charge for garbage and trash collection to
deposit garbage or trash in any city-owned dumpster.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.050) (Ord. 2007-3, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 COLLECTION BY CITY.
   The city shall collect all residential garbage, refuse, and ashes from
single-family dwellings and apartment buildings. The collection shall be made
by the city at least once each week; provided, that the material is properly
stored for collection in a container complying with the provisions of this
chapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.060) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979)
§ 53.07 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Residential. A service charge of $9 per month for each residence shall
be paid to the city for the collection of garbage and trash from that
residence.
   (B)   Commercial. A service charge of $11 per month for each commercial
establishment shall be paid to the city for the collection of garbage and trash
from that establishment.
   (C)   Dumpsters. A service charge of $19 per dumpster pickup shall be paid
to the city for the collection of garbage and trash. A dumpster shall have a
maximum capacity of two cubic yards and shall be approved by the city. The
dumpster shall not be filled to such a capacity so that the lid does not close.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.070) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979; Ord. 567, passed - -1982;
Ord. 2007-2, passed - -2007; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015; Ord. 2022-3, passed
8-4-2022)
§ 53.08 BILLS.
   Bills for the collection of garbage, refuse, and ashes shall be sent out
monthly.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.080) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979)
§ 53.09 FAILURE TO PAY SERVICE CHARGE.
   When any person fails to pay the service charge for removal of garbage,
refuse, or ashes, the City Clerk shall notify such person of this fact and the
city may refuse further collection from such person until the required fee has
been paid, or use any other remedy available including, but not limited to, a
small claims action.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.090) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979)
§ 53.10 EXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY TO REMOVE ITEMS FROM COLLECTION RECEPTACLES.
   No person other than the city or its authorized collection agents may remove
any item from a collection cart, disposable container, bundle, dumpster or
recycling bin which has been placed for municipal collection.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 6-2-2022)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 13.16.100) (Ord. 535, passed - -1979)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER
Section
   
54.01   Applicability
   
54.02   Plan adopted; administration
   
54.03   Issuance of a building permit
§ 54.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable, but not limited to,
manufacturing sites, commercial sites, apartment complexes, new subdivision
sites, and resubdivision sites. The provisions of this chapter shall not be
applicable to one-family residential sites in existence as of the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 13.20.010) (Ord. 95-6, passed - -1995)
§ 54.02 PLAN ADOPTED; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Title 92, Transportation, Ch. I, Department of Transportation, Subch.
F, Highways, part 560, Permits for Drainage Outlets, of the State
Administrative Code, which sets forth the basis and approach for stormwater
management, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein as the city’s stormwater management plan.
   (B)   In administering said stormwater management plan, the following basic
principles shall be applied to all projects requiring stormwater management. No
stormwater will be diverted from the building site in such a manner that these
waters flow into a watercourse which is not its natural tributary and that the
point of discharge of these waters must be within the natural watershed of the
site. Detention of stormwaters must be provided as necessary to satisfy
requirements in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) below.
      (1)   Stormwaters which enter the city or other public drainage system
from building sites subject to this chapter must not exceed that which would
naturally enter from the natural tributary area during and immediately after
the maximum storm event which would be expected to occur once every ten and
once every 100 years.
      (2)   Proposed facilities must be designed and constructed to prevent the
overtaxing or otherwise damaging of the city or other public drainage systems.
   (C)   The term PUBLIC as used in this division(C) shall include state,
county, city, township, and other public property.
(1978 Code, § 13.20.020) (Ord. 95-6, passed - -1995)
§ 54.03 ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.
   A building permit shall not be issued unless and until all requirements set
forth in this chapter are met.
(1978 Code, § 13.20.030) (Ord. 95-6, passed - -1995)
CHAPTER 55: UNDERGROUND DAMAGE PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
55.01   Scope
   
55.02   Incorporation by reference
   
55.03   Definitions
   
55.04   Implementation
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 SCOPE.
   This underground damage prevention program establishes the policies and
procedures for a written directive of the requirements of the city. The program
is to ensure compliance with the highest standards of underground damage
prevention and to comply with 49 C.F.R. § 192.614. The scope of this program
and its activities include all work, excavations, drilling, boring,
construction, demolition, surface removal, or penetration in any manner of
public or private property where underground facilities may exist.
(1978 Code, § 13.24.010) (Ord. 2000-4, passed - -2000)
§ 55.02 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The current editions of the following documents, and any future amendments
thereto, are incorporated by reference as though fully set forth and may be
incorporated in the ordinance codified in this chapter as appendices:
   (A)   49 C.F.R. § 192.614;
   (B)   A map or land description of the area covered for the city by and
through its membership in the JULIE System, as amended;
   (C)   The JULIE System Excavator’s Manual as amended;
   (D)   Current list of persons, firms, or corporations who normally engage in
activities described in the above scope within the area identified in division
(C) above;
   (E)   A copy of the latest public notification to make all persons aware of
the underground damage prevention program of the city;
   (F)   Special notices and conditions of “application for natural gas
service” specifically pertaining to excavation and back fill at buildings as in
Item D on the back side of the application form; and
   (G)   JULIE “dig notice” procedure, as amended, as incorporated into the
City of Nashville Natural Gas O & M Manual.
(1978 Code, § 13.24.020) (Ord. 2000-4, passed - -2000)
§ 55.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVITY. Activity within the scope of this program shall include all work,
excavations, drilling, boring, construction, demolition, surface removal, or
penetration in any manner of public or private property where underground
facilities may exist.
   ANNUAL EMERGENCY PLAN MEETING. The annual emergency plan meeting is
identified as that meeting held by the Natural Gas Department on an annual
basis to convey through liaison emergency safety practices and procedures
including underground damage prevention and the reminder for use of the
statewide one-call system.
   DAMAGE. Any altering of the physical property of the pipeline facility,
including nicking, scratching, scraping, denting, and the like of the
protective coating on steel pipe or any scratches, gouges, denting, bending,
stretching, deforming, crushing, cracking, and/or severance of the pipeline
mains or service.
   EXCAVATOR. Any entity, person, firm, or corporation proposing to engage in
any activity described above.
   ONE-CALL SYSTEM. The statewide one-call system for excavators. In the state,
the JULIE System, as amended.
   OPERATOR. An operator under this program and as recognized in 49 C.F.R. part
192 is the city responsible for the operation of the natural gas system through
its municipal officials and employees.
   SECTION 192.614. The part of the minimum federal pipeline safety standards,
which requires a written plan and compliance by the natural gas operation of
the city.
(1978 Code, § 13.24.030) (Ord. 2000-4, passed - -2000)
§ 55.04 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Implementation of this underground damage prevention program shall be
exercised by the city through its City Council and the Natural Gas Department
of the city as operator under the minimum federal pipeline safety standards.
   (B)   Continuing public education of all persons and excavators will be
accomplished by the city through convenient forms of notification at intervals
deemed appropriate. The communication may be through newspaper, radio,
television, internet e-mail, or direct mailing. Such education will take full
advantage of the notification and educational activities performed directly by
the statewide one-call system. The operator will maintain an awareness of one-
call system activities within the area covered by the operator.
   (C)   The city shall prosecute violations of this chapter as well as state
laws governing the requirements of excavators in underground damage prevention.
Litigation under state law will be initiated immediately upon discovery of a
violation by an excavator (as defined in this chapter). Flagrant or repeated
violations shall preclude issuance of permits for future activity within the
city.
(1978 Code, § 13.24.040) (Ord. 2000-4, passed - -2000)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any excavator causing damage to the city’s underground pipeline
facilities shall pay all costs associated with the value of the lost product,
including, but not limited to, natural gas, potable water, raw water,
stormwater, and domestic sewerage; all costs associated with the physical
repair of the pipeline, including material, labor, equipment, engineering, and
testing costs; all costs associated with damages and repairs to the environment
and environmental mitigation costs; and any fines assessed to the city by the
IEPA, USEPA, or any other governmental agency resulting from the damage event.
   (B)   A fine not to exceed $750 as set by the City Council on a case-by-case
basis. If not paid by the offender within 30 days of notice of its imposition,
the city shall prosecute the offense in County Circuit Court with a fine not to
exceed $750.
(1978 Code, § 13.24.030) (Ord. 2000-4, passed - -2000)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
Statutory reference:
   Powers of local authorities to regulate traffic, see 625 ILCS 5/11-207 and
11-208
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
70.01   Street closed for repairs; driving vehicle or leading animals
prohibited
   
70.02   Street closed for repairs; interference with signs prohibited
Traffic-Control Devices Generally
   
70.15   Disobeying traffic signs or signals deemed unlawful; exception
   
70.16   Placement and maintenance of traffic-control devices authorized
   
70.17   Intersections; procedure
Placement of Traffic-Control Signs
   
70.30   Report adopted
   
70.31   Approval of Council
   
70.32   Placement generally
Parades
   
70.45   Permit; when required
   
70.46   Permit; issuance or refusal; inapplicable provisions to certain
processions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking Regulations, see
Ch. 71
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing local authorities to regulate traffic by means of traffic-
control signals, see 625 ILCS 5/11-208(2)
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
§ 70.01 STREET CLOSED FOR REPAIRS; DRIVING VEHICLE OR LEADING ANIMALS
PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person or to drive or cause to be driven a vehicle of
any description, or lead, ride, or drive any horse, mule, team, cow, or other
animal, in or upon any portion of any street or alley marked closed by signs
and bars, within the corporate limits of the city immediately after any such
portion of any such street or alley has been improved or repaired and before
such portion of any such street or alley is opened for traffic and travel by
removal of said signs and bars by the City Street Department.
(1978 Code, § 10.08.010) (Ord. 93, passed - -1924) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 STREET CLOSED FOR REPAIRS; INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS PROHIBITED.
    It is unlawful for any person or persons to remove, deface, or destroy any
signs or bars mentioned in §
70.01, while in or on any such street or alley within the corporate limits of
the city.
(1978 Code, § 10.08.020) (Ord. 93, passed - -1924) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES GENERALLY
§ 70.15 DISOBEYING TRAFFIC SIGNS OR SIGNALS DEEMED UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
City Council or in accordance with the laws of the state, except on direction
of a police officer.
   (B)   All signs and signals established by direction of the City Council
shall conform to the State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways.
(1978 Code, § 10.04.010) (Ord. 384, passed - -1968) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AUTHORIZED.
   The Street Superintendent, or such other person designated by the Mayor and
City Council, shall place and maintain all traffic-control devices, signs, and
all other markings for the control of traffic and parking, as directed by the
City Council.
(1978 Code, § 10.04.020) (Ord. 384, passed - -1968)
§ 70.17 INTERSECTIONS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Stop intersection; procedure.
      (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic-
controlled signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none then at the point nearest the
intersection roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      (2)   After the driver has stopped his or her vehicle, he or she shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another roadway or which is approaching so closely on the roadway as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time that the driver is moving across
or within the intersection, but said driver having so yielded may proceed at
such time as a safe interval occurs.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.030)
   (B)   Yield intersection; procedure.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in
obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions and shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection
or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
      (2)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(1978 Code, § 10.04.040)
(Ord. 384, passed - -1968)
PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS
§ 70.30 REPORT ADOPTED.
   The Community Assistance Program Report dated February 11, 1985, prepared by
the State Department of Transportation, is hereby adopted by the city and is
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.010) (Ord. 602, passed - -1986)
§ 70.31 APPROVAL OF COUNCIL.
   The locations and types of signs as identified in the report adopted in §
70.30 are approved by the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.020) (Ord. 602, passed - -1986)
§ 70.32 PLACEMENT GENERALLY.
    Traffic-control placements within the corporate limits are indicated in
this subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.030) (Ord. 602, passed - -1986)
PARADES
§ 70.45 PERMIT; WHEN REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any society, band, circus, theatrical organization, or
any collection of persons to parade, or march in, upon or along the streets or
sidewalks of the city at any time of the day or night without first obtaining
from the Mayor (or, in the case of his or her absence from the city, from the
acting Mayor) a permit in writing for the same.
(1978 Code, § 5.16.010) (Ord. 14, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 PERMIT; ISSUANCE OR REFUSAL; INAPPLICABLE PROVISIONS TO CERTAIN
PROCESSIONS.
    The official to whom such application for such permit is made shall have
power to issue, or to refuse to issue, such permit as he or she may deem for
the best interests of the city; provided, however, that the provisions of this
subchapter shall not apply to funeral processions or memorial processions.
(1978 Code, § 5.16.020) (Ord. 14, passed - -1917)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons willfully violating any of the provisions of §§
70.01 or
70.02 shall upon conviction be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.08.030)
   (C)    Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
70.15 through
70.17 shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.04.050)
   (D)   Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of §§
70.30 through
70.32 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
   (E)   Each and every person being in such procession or parade for which no
permit has been given shall upon conviction be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 and is also liable for costs of suit.
(1978 Code, § 5.16.030)
(Ord. 14, passed - -1917; Ord. 93, passed - -1924; Ord. 384, passed - -1968;
Ord. 602, passed - -1986)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Regulations
   
71.01   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
71.02   Unauthorized use of parking places reserved for handicapped persons
   
71.03   Parallel parking
Railroad Trains Obstructing Streets
   
71.15   Stopping or leaving train on intersection with street unlawful;
exceptions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 74
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing local authorities to regulate the standing or parking of
vehicles, see 65 ILCS 5/11-208
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   The stopping, standing, or parking of an automobile or other vehicle, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law;
or directions of a police officer of official traffic-control-device is
prohibited:
   (A)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of street; and/or
   (B)   On a crosswalk.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.020) (Ord. 87-2, passed - -1987) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING PLACES RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   It is unlawful to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing registration
plates or decals issued to a disabled person or to a disabled veteran pursuant
to the State Motor Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1- 100 et seq., as evidence
that the vehicle is operated by or for a disabled person or disabled veteran,
in any parking place, including any private or public off-street parking
facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as designed
under the State Motor Vehicle Code, for motor vehicles bearing such
registration plates.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.040) (Ord. 87-2, passed - -1987) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon any street in the city shall be so stopped or parked with the
right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as
close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.050) (Ord. 87-2, passed - -1987; Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992;
Ord. 98-6, passed - -1998; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
RAILROAD TRAINS OBSTRUCTING STREETS
§ 71.15 STOPPING OR LEAVING TRAIN ON INTERSECTION WITH STREET UNLAWFUL;
EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any railroad corporation to obstruct any street or public
highway in the corporate limits of the city, by stopping any train thereon, or
by leaving any car or locomotive engine standing on its track when the same
crosses or intersects such streets or public highway, except for the purpose of
receiving or discharging passengers or freight, or for taking in or setting out
cars, or to receive the necessary fuel or water, and in no case to exceed ten
minutes for each train, car or locomotive engine.
(1978 Code, § 10.16.010) (Ord. 20, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Every engineer or conductor violating the provisions of §
71.15 shall, upon conviction, be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.16.020)
(Ord. 20, passed - -1917; Ord. 87-2, passed - -1987; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Requirements
   
72.03   Permits
   
72.04   Effective date
Non-Highway Vehicles
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Requirements
   
72.17   Permits
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the City of
Nashville, excluding Illinois Route 127 and Illinois Route 15.
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLES, a/k/a GOLF CARTS. A vehicle specifically defined and
intended for the purposes of transporting one or more persons and their golf
clubs or maintenance equipment while engaged in the playing of golf,
supervising the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a
public or private golf course. “Bad boy” type vehicles are excluded from the
definition of LOW-SPEED VEHICLES authorized herein.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 12-6-2012)
§ 72.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons wishing to operate an allowed low- speed vehicle on the city
streets must comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Proof of current mandatory liability insurance as required by Ch. 7,
Art. VI of the State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.;
   (B)   Must have the vehicle annually certified with the city by inspection
by the City Police Chief or designated representative;
   (C)   Must comply with the published Rules Concerning Alternate
Transportation For the City of Nashville as periodically updated;
   (D)   Must display city decal on the rear of the vehicle;
   (E)   Must have a current, valid state driver’s license;
   (F)   Golf carts must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Horn;
      (2)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (3)   Turn signals;
      (4)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (5)   Tires;
      (6)   Rearview mirror;
      (7)   Approved “slow moving vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(625 ILCS 5/12-709);
      (8)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front which must be illuminated at all times when in operation;
      (9)   Taillight that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must be illuminated at all times when in operation;
      (10)   White reflectorized warning devices in the front and red
reflectorized warning devices in the rear;
      (11)   Seat belts or safety restraints; and
      (12)   Any additional requirements which may be amended to 625 ILCS 5/11-
1426.1 or the State Motor Vehicle Code.
   (G)   Must obey all traffic laws of the state and of the city;
   (H)   Must be operated by a person 21 years of age or older;
   (I)   Must be operated only on city streets, except where prohibited;
   (J)    May not be operated on Illinois State Route 127 or Illinois State
Route 15;
   (K)   Must not be operated in excess of posted speed limit and, may not be
operated at a speed in excess of 20 mph;
   (L)   May only be operated between sunrise and 10:00 p.m.;
   (M)   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of an allowed
low-speed vehicle, as described herein, on a roadway shall not operate such
vehicle while under the influence and shall be subject to 625 ILCS 5/11-500
through 11-502;
   (N)   Allowed low-speed vehicles shall not be operated on sidewalks or in
Memorial Park District, other than on streets and parking areas;
   (O)   Allowed low-speed vehicles may not be operated on streets and highways
and roads under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation
(Illinois State Route 127 and Illinois State Route 15); and
   (P)   Operator and all occupants must be in a sitting position wearing a
properly adjusted seatbelt or safety restraint.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 12-6-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an allowed low- speed vehicle without first
obtaining a permit from the office of the City Police Chief as provided herein.
Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and renewed annually. The
cost of the permit is $50. Insurance coverage is to be verified, by the Police
Department, to be in effect when obtaining and renewing a permit. Permits shall
be valid from March 1 to the last day of February of the following year.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of the liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model, description, and color of the
allowed low-speed vehicle;
      (4)   Signed release of liability by applicant releasing the city and
agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all future claims
resulting from the operation of their allowed low- speed vehicles on city
streets;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (6)   Photocopy of drivers license; and
      (7)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the City Chief of Police (or his
or her designee) to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets
and is in compliance with this chapter and with the State Motor Vehicle Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
      (2)   A physically disabled applicant, who may not otherwise be
authorized to operate a non-low- speed vehicle (car or truck), must submit a
certificate signed by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to
safely operate an allowed low- speed vehicle on city streets.
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance for
passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter or
there is evidence that permittee cannot safely operate an allowed low-speed
vehicle on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 12-6-2012; Ord. 2020-2, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 72.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from the after passage and
approval as provided by law.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 12-6-2012)
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets within the corporate limits of the City of
Nashville, excluding Illinois Route 127 and Illinois Route 15.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES. Defined herein as is authorized by § 11-1426.1 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.) as follows:
      (1)   Operation of non-highway vehicles on streets, roads, and highways.
         (a)   As used in this sunchapter, NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE means a motor
vehicle not specifically designed to be used on a public highway, including:
            1.   An all-terrain vehicle, as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-101.8;
            2.   A golf cart, as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-123.9;
            3.   An off-highway motorcycle, as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-153.1;
and
            4.   A recreational off-highway vehicle, as defined by 625 ILCS 5/
1-168.8.
         (b)   The statutory and incorporated definition is intended to include
such vehicles colloquially known as "utility terrain vehicles" (UTV's), "all-
terrain vehicles" (ATV's), "side- by-sides" (SxS's) and "recreational off-
highway vehicles" (ROV's).
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 72.16 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons wishing to operate an allowed non-highway vehicle on the city
streets must comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Proof of current mandatory liability insurance as required by Article
VI of Chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (B)   Must have the vehicle annually certified with the city by inspection
by the City Police Chief or designated representative.
   (C)   Must display city decal on the rear of the vehicle.
   (D)   Must have a current, valid driver's license.
   (E)   Non-highway vehicles must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Brakes;
      (2)   A steering apparatus;
      (3)   Tires;
      (4)   Rearview mirror;
      (5)   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear;
      (6)   Approved "slow moving vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(625 ILCS 5/12-709);
      (7)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front which must be illuminated at all times when in operation;
      (8)   Tail light that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear brake lights and turn signals;
      (9)   Seat belts or safety restraints, except on ATV's;
      (10)   Horn;
      (11)   An exhaust system having a decibel sound level not to exceed
factory-installed system for that non-highway vehicle;
      (12)   Any additional requirements which may be amended to 625 ILCS 5/11-
1426.1 or the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
   (F)   When operated on a roadway, a non-highway vehicle shall have its
headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-201.
   (G)   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and the City of
Nashville.
   (H)   Must be operated by a person 21 years of age or older.
   (I)   Must be operated only on city streets, except where prohibited.
   (J)   May not be operated on Illinois State Route 127 or Illinois State
Route 15.
   (K)   Must not be operated in excess of posted speed limit and, may not be
operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (L)   May only be operated between sunrise and 10:00 p.m.
   (M)   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of an allowed
non-highway vehicle, as described herein, on a roadway shall not operate such
vehicle while under the influence and shall be subject to 625 ILCS 5/11-500
through 11-502.
   (N)   Allowed non-highway vehicles shall not be operated on sidewalks or in
Memorial Park District, other than on streets and parking areas.
   (O)   Allowed non-highway vehicles may not be operated on streets and
highways and roads under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of
Transportation (Illinois State Route 127 and Illinois State Route 15).
   (P)   Operator and all occupants must be in a sitting position wearing a
properly adjusted seatbelt or safety restraint.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-16-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an allowed non-highway vehicle without first
obtaining a permit from the office of the City Police Chief as provided herein.
Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and renewed annually. The
cost of the permit is $50. Insurance coverage is to be verified, by the Police
Department, to be in effect when obtaining and renewing a permit. Permits shall
be valid from March 1 to the last day of February of the following year.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of the liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model, description and color of the
allowed low speed vehicle;
      (4)   Signed release of liability by applicant releasing the City of
Nashville and agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all
future claims resulting from the operation of their allowed non-highway vehicle
on the city streets;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (6)   Photocopy of driver's license;
      (7)   Such other information as the City Police Department may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the City Chief of Police (or
designee) to insure that the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets and is
in compliance with this subchapter and with the State of Illinois Motor Vehicle
Code;
      (2)   A physically handicapped applicant, who may not otherwise be
authorized to operate a non-low-speed vehicle (car, truck), must submit a
certificate signed by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to
safely operate an allowed non-highway vehicle on city streets;
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois Statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the State of
Illinois.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this subchapter
or there is evidence that permittee cannot safely operate an allowed low speed
vehicle on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-16-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of $75. Any second or subsequent
offense shall result in the revocation of the permit for a period of not less
than three nor more than five years. To the extent that any violation of this
chapter also constitutes a violation of a criminal statute of the state, then
the violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 12-6-2012)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop signs
   
II.   Yield signs
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   School speed signs
   
V.   Do not enter signs
   
VI.   One-way streets
   
VII.   Turning movements
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Stop (R1-1) signs locations are as follows.
Direction(s) Street/Location
Direction(s)                          Street/Location
Eastbound                             Broadway on Alton
Eastbound                             Bryan on South Friendship
Eastbound                             Buhrman on Alton
Eastbound                             Buhrman Street on Chester Street
Eastbound                             Buhrman Street on Belleville Street
Eastbound                             Kaskaskia on Center
Eastbound                             Kaskaskia Street on High Street
Eastbound                             Friendship on Lebanon
Eastbound                             Grand on Verner
Eastbound                             Hoffman on Elm
Eastbound                             Hoffman Street on Maple Street
Eastbound                             Hoffman Street on Walnut Street
Eastbound                             Independence Street on N. West Jefferson
                                      Drive
Eastbound                             Independence Street on S. West Jefferson
                                      Drive
Eastbound                             Washington on Doelling Memorial
Eastbound                             West Court on Elm
Eastbound                             Willowbrook Drive on West Heathwood
                                      Drive
Eastbound exit from truck parking lot On unnamed city street
at McDonald’s
Eastbound and westbound               Broadway on Adams
Eastbound and westbound               Broadway on Belleville
Eastbound and westbound               Broadway on Chester
Eastbound and westbound               Broadway Street on Lebanon Street
Eastbound and westbound               Bryan on Adams
Eastbound and westbound               Buhrman on Adams
Eastbound and westbound               Buhrman on Elm
Eastbound and westbound               Buhrman on Gorman
Eastbound and westbound               Buhrman on Lebanon
Eastbound and westbound               Chester Kaskaskia
Eastbound and westbound               Grand on Adams
Eastbound and westbound               Grand on Alton
Eastbound and westbound               Grand on Center
Eastbound and westbound               Grand on Lebanon
Eastbound and westbound               Hoffman on Adams
Eastbound and westbound               Kaskaskia on 3rd
Eastbound and westbound               Kaskaskia on Adams
Eastbound and westbound               Kaskaskia on Lebanon
Eastbound and westbound               Mitchell on Legion South
Eastbound and westbound               Moore Street on High Street
Eastbound and westbound               Washington on 3rd
Eastbound and westbound               Washington on Adams
Eastbound and westbound               Washington on Belleville
Eastbound and westbound               Washington on Lebanon
Eastbound and westbound               Washington Street on Lebanon Street
Eastbound and westbound               Western Avenue on Vernor Street
Eastbound and westbound               Western Avenue on West Maple Street
Northbound                            2nd on Frank
Northbound                            Allen Street on Paul Street
Northbound                            Chester on Lafayette
Northbound                            Chester on Moore
Northbound                            Goodner on Short
Northbound                            Goodner on Troutt
Northbound                            Gorman on Community
Northbound                            High Street on S. Washington Street
Northbound                            Huegely on Kaskaskia
Northbound                            Lebanon Street on S. Bryan Street
Northbound                            Lebanon Street on Wood Street
Northbound                            Legion on North Hoffman
Northbound and southbound             Gorman on Buhrman
Northbound and southbound             Kaskaskia at Lebanon
Northbound and southbound             Lebanon Street on South Buhrman Street
Northbound and southbound             Maple on Buhrman
Northbound and southbound             Maple on Mitchell
Northbound and southbound             Walnut Street on Short Street
Southbound                            Belleville on Wood
Southbound                            Chester on Washington
Southbound                            Elm on Kaskaskia
Southbound                            Elm Street on Short Street
Southbound                            Gym on Buhrman
Southbound                            Gym Street on Heaman Street
Southbound                            Gym Street on Paul Street
Southbound                            Huegely on North Mill
Southbound                            High on Lafayette
Southbound                            Lebanon on Bryan
Southbound                            Lebanon on South Hoffman
Southbound                            S. Kaskaskia Street on S. Washington
                                      Street
Southbound and northbound             Adams on Wood
Southbound and northbound             Chester on Broadway
Southbound and northbound             Chester on Kaskaskia
Southbound and northbound             Elm on Troutt
Southbound and northbound             Gorman on Heaman
Southbound and northbound             Gorman on Paul
Southbound and northbound             High on Broadway
Southbound and northbound             Lebanon on Broadway
Southbound and northbound             Lebanon on Washington
Southbound and northbound             Maple on Broadway
Southbound and northbound             Walnut on Troutt
Southbound and northbound             Walnut on Washington
Westbound                             Box Street on Adams Street
Westbound                             Broadway on Doelling Memorial
Westbound                             Broadway Street on Third Street
Westbound                             Buhrman on Allen
Westbound                             Buhrman on Legion South
Westbound                             Community on Gym
Westbound                             East Court on Elm
Westbound                             Grand on Chester
Westbound                             Grand on Elm
Westbound                             Grand on High
Westbound                             Grand on Hill
Westbound                             Grand on Walnut
Westbound                             Independence Street on West Jefferson
                                      Drive
Westbound                             Kaskaskia Street on E. Railroad Street
Westbound                             Kaskaskia on Masonic Drive
Westbound                             Washington on Alton
Westbound and eastbound               Broadway Street on Elm Street (replaces
                                      yield signs)
Westbound and eastbound               Broadway on Walnut
Westbound and eastbound               Buhrman on Maple
Westbound and eastbound               Buhrman on Walnut
Westbound and eastbound               Kaskaskia on Maple
Westbound and eastbound               Kaskaskia on Walnut
Westbound and eastbound               Grand on Goodner
Westbound and eastbound               Grand on Maple
Westbound and eastbound               Kaskaskia on 2nd
Westbound and eastbound               Washington on Elm
Westbound and eastbound               Washington on Maple
 
(1978 Code, § 10.24.040)
   (B)   Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
(Ord. 602, passed - -1986; Ord. 94-8, passed - -1994; Ord. 94-9, passed - -
1994; Ord. 2001-2, passed - -2001; Ord. 2002-5, passed - -2002; Ord. 2002-6,
passed - -2002; Ord. 2003-2, passed - -2003; Ord. 2003-9, passed - -2003; Ord.
2005-2, passed - -2005; Ord. 2005-5, passed - -2005; Ord. 2006-1, passed - -
2006; Ord. 2008-4, passed 10-16-2008)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Yield signs (R1-2) locations are as follows.
Direction Street/Location
Direction               Street/Location
Eastbound               Legion, (east) on Inner Park Road
Eastbound and westbound Kaskaskia on Alton
Eastbound and westbound Kaskaskia on Belleville
Northbound              Legion, (west) on Inner Park Road
Northbound              Third Street on Frank Street
Southbound              Outer Park Road on Outer Park Road West
Southbound              Outer Road on Park Road #1
Southbound              Third Street on Frank Street
Southbound              Walnut Street on Frank Street
Westbound               Memorial Drive at E. Legion Drive
 
(1978 Code, § 10.24.050)
   (B)   Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
(Ord. 602, passed - -1986; Ord. 2001-2, passed - -2001; Ord. 2002-5, passed - -
2002; Ord. 2003-2, passed - -2003; Ord. 2005-2, passed - -2005; Ord. 2005-5,
passed - -2005; Ord. 2008-4, passed 10-16-2008)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   Speed limits are posted with (R2-1) speed signs as follows:
   (A)   Speed limit 20 mph.
All of Holzhauer Drive (eastbound signs and two westbound signs)
All of North Hoffman Street from Illinois State Route 15 (east St. Louis
Street) to Legion Drive (one northbound sign and one southbound sign)
On Community Avenue (two northbound signs, three southbound signs)
On Gorman from Buhrman to School (two eastbound signs, two westbound signs)
On Gym Street (two eastbound signs, two westbound signs)
On Legion Drive, north (one westbound sign, three eastbound signs)
On Legion Drive, south (two westbound signs, two eastbound signs)
On Outer Park Road, east of Legion Drive (one westbound sign, two eastbound
signs)
On Student Drive (one eastbound sign)
 
   (B)   Speed limit 30 mph.
On Broadway from Belleville south (one southbound sign at Belleville)
On Broadway from Doelling Memorial north (one northbound sign at Doelling
Memorial)
On Grand from Elm to south city limits (one southbound and one northbound sign)
On Grand from north city limits to Walnut (one southbound and one northbound
sign)
On Hoffman (one northbound sign at south city limits)
On Kaskaskia (one northbound sign at south city limits)
On Washington from Belleville south (one southbound sign at Belleville)
On Washington from north city limits to Doelling Memorial (on southbound and
one northbound sign)
On Walnut from Troutt east (one eastbound sign at Troutt)
 
   (C)   Speed limit 40 mph.
 
All of Mockingbird Road from Illinois State Route 127 to the west city limits
(one westbound and one eastbound sign)
   (D)   Speed limit 55 mph (posted to signify end of reduced speed limits).
 
On northbound Grand at north city limits
On southbound Grand at south city limits
On southbound Kaskaskia at south city limits
 
(1978 Code, § 10.24.060)
   (E)   Penalty. Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of this
schedule shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
(Ord. 602, passed - -1986; Ord. 2000-5, passed - -2000; Ord. 2009-8, passed 9-
3-2009; Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-15-2015)
SCHEDULE IV. SCHOOL SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   School speed limits are posted with (S4-I100) school speed limit 20
mph signs as follows:
 
On Broadway from Doelling Memorial to Belleville (one northbound and one
southbound sign)
On Chester from Mill to Kaskaskia (one eastbound sign and one westbound sign)
On Grand from Walnut to Elm (one northbound and one southbound sign)
On Elm from Troutt to Grand (one eastbound sign and one westbound sign)
On Walnut from Grand to Troutt (one eastbound sign and one westbound sign)
On Washington from Doelling Memorial to Belleville (one northbound and one
southbound sign)
 
(1978 Code, § 10.24.070)
   (B)   Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
(Ord. 602, passed - -1986; Ord. 2000-5, passed - -2000)
SCHEDULE V. DO NOT ENTER SIGNS.
   (A)   Do not enter (R5-1) sign locations are as follows.
 
On eastbound Gorman, east of Heaman
On eastbound Legion at Outer Park Road
On northbound Outer Park Road at Park Road #1
On northbound Park Road #1 at Outer Park Road
 
(1978 Code, § 10.24.100)
   (B)   Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
(Ord. 602, passed - -1986)
SCHEDULE VI. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   One-way streets are posted with (R6-2) signs as follows.
 
On eastbound Legion (north) from swimming pool to Outer Park Road (two one-way
right signs)
On southbound Park Road #1 from Outer Park Road to the pavilion (one one-way
let sign)
 
(1978 Code, § 10.24.110)
   (B)   Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
(Ord. 602, passed - -1986)
SCHEDULE VII. TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person traveling north on South Kaskaskia
Street to make a left turn in an automobile or other vehicle off South
Kaskaskia Street onto St. Louis Street (Illinois Route 15).
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (A) above shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable under
§
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.28.010)
(Ord. 87-3, passed - -1987)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
   
II.   Restricted parking locations
   
III.   Two-hour parking
   
IV.   Angle parking
   
V.   Parking vehicles seven feet high or higher permitted
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Prohibited parking locations are as follows (R7 series signs).
Street Location
Street     Location
On
eastbound  From Kaskaskia to Mill (no parking this side, two signs)
Adams
On
eastbound  From Washington to ___ feet west of Kaskaskia (no parking this side, two signs)
Adams
On
eastbound  From west of Washington to Washington (no parking here to corner)
Belleville
On
eastbound  From 156 feet west of West Court to West Court (no parking here to corner)
Elm
On         From 44 feet east of Buhram to 177 feet east of Buhrman (no parking during
eastbound  church services, two signs)
Walnut
On
northbound From Adams to Illinois Route 15 (no parking this side, two signs) 114-5
Washington
On
southbound Of alley (no parking in alley)
West Court
On the     South of 225 West St. Louis Street, and east of the driveway into a parking lot
north side for the businesses currently occupied by Washington County Title & Abstract
of West    Company, Car Quest, and Tim’s Tire Time (eliminates the westerly one existing
St. Louis  parking space immediately east of said driveway - marked with a yellow painted
Street     curb)
On
westbound  From 143 feet east of Kaskaskia to 78 feet
1st Street
On
westbound  From Kaskaskia to ___ feet west of Kaskaskia (no parking, two signs)
Adams
On
westbound  From 180 feet east of East Court to East Court (no parking here to corner)
Elm Street
 
(1978 Code, § 10.24.080)
   (B)   Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
(Ord. 602, passed - -1986; Ord. 2010-9, passed 10-21-2010)
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED PARKING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Portions of certain streets in the city are designated in this section
as restricted areas for the standing or parking of automobiles and vehicles and
the standing or parking of an automobile or other vehicle, whether occupied or
not, except momentarily to discharge or pickup passengers within such
restricted areas is prohibited.
Street Location
Street                                 Location
                                       At any place where official signs or a
                                       yellow painted curb prohibits standing
                                       or parking
                                       In front of a public or private driveway
                                       Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant
                                       Within 20 feet of a crosswalk in an
                                       intersection
                                       From a point 400 feet south to a point
Along both sides of Mill Street        400, more or less, north of the
(Illinois Route 127)                   centerline of St. Louis Street (Illinois
                                       Route 15) to Highway Station 972+33
Along both sides of St. Louis Street   East 388 feet to Highway Station 23+88
(Illinois Route 15)
Along Mill Street (Illinois Route 127) From Holzhauer Drive south to the south
                                       city limits
Along Mill Street (Illinois Route 127) From the Louisville and Nashville
                                       Railroad tracks to the north city limits
Along St. Louis Street (Illinois Route From Gardner Street east to the east
15)                                    city limits
Along St. Louis Street (Illinois Route From the Missouri and Illinois Railroad
15)                                    tracks west to the west city limits
                                       From a point 134 feet west of the
Along the north side of St. Louis      centerline of Mill Street (Illinois
Street (Illinois Route 15)             Route 127) (FA 42) east to Mill Street
                                       (Illinois Route 127) (eliminates the
                                       easterly two existing parking spaces)
                                       From a point (at Station 18+36) 162
                                       feet, more or less, west of the
Along the south side of St. Louis      centerline of Mill Street (Illinois
Street (Illinois Route 15)             Route 127), east to Mill Street
                                       (Illinois Route 127) (eliminates the
                                       easterly two existing parking spaces)
                                       From Station 1530+75 (the south boundary
On both sides of Illinois Route 127    line of the entrance to Little
                                       Nashville, Inc.) north to Station
                                       1539+87 (the bridge over Middle Creek)
                                       From the west right-of-way line of North
On either side of Elm Street           Mill Street (Illinois Route 127) to the
                                       east right-of-way line of East Court
                                       Street
                                       From the north right-of-way line of East
On the west side of Hoffman Street     St. Louis Street (Illinois Route 15) to
                                       Legion Drive
That portion of highway on Illinois
Route 127 (Mill Street), on both sides From Holzhauer Street to Adams Street
of the roadway
 
(1978 Code, § 10.12.010)
   (B)   Restricted parking locations are as follows (R7 series signs).
Street Location
Street                               Location
On eastbound 1st Street              From Kaskaskia to Mill (parallel parking
                                     only, two signs)
On eastbound Adams                   From Kaskaskia to 105 feet west of
                                     Kaskaskia (ten- minute parking)
                                     From Illinois Route 15 to Elm (two-hour
On northbound East Court             parking, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., two
                                     signs)
                                     From Adams to Illinois Route 15 (ten-
On northbound Kaskaskia              minute parking, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
                                     two signs)
On northbound and southbound Buhrman From Maple to Legion (parallel parking
                                     only, two signs, each side of street)
                                     From Illinois Route 15 to _feet north of
On northbound West Court             Illinois Route 15 (reserved parking, 4
                                     signs)
                                     From 117 feet north of Illinois Route 15
On northbound West Court             to Elm (two- hour parking, 8:00 a.m. -5:00
                                     p.m. 1 sign)
On southbound E. Court               From Elm to Illinois 15 (two-hour parking,
                                     8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.)
                                     From Illinois Route 15 to Adams (ten-
On southbound Kaskaskia              minute parking, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
                                     two signs)
                                     From Elm to Illinois Route 15 (two-hour
On southbound West Court             parking, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., two
                                     signs)
                                     118 feet west of Washington (school bus
On westbound Belleville              loading, 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 3:00
                                     p.m. to 4:00 p.m.)
On westbound Elm                     From Kaskaskia to West Court (two-hour
                                     parking, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.)
 
(1978 Code, § 10.24.090)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of
division (A) above shall be fined $5 for each offense.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.070)
      (2)   Any motor vehicle operator violating the provisions of division (B)
above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.24.120)
(Ord. 602, passed - -1986 ; Ord. 87-2, passed - -1987; Ord. 89-1, passed - -
1989; Ord. 89-3, passed - -1989; Ord. 89-4, passed - -1989; Ord. 92-3, passed
6-4-1992; Ord. 92-6, passed 1993; Ord. 96-7, passed - -1996; Ord. 99-11, passed
- -1999; Ord. 2004-5, passed - -2004)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing local authorities to regulate the standing or parking of
vehicles, see 625 ILCS 5/11-208 (1)
SCHEDULE III. TWO-HOUR PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, persons, firms, or corporations to park
any motor vehicle or other vehicle upon that part of St. Louis Street, lying
between Washington and Mill Streets, and upon that part of South Kaskaskia
Street, lying between Adams Street and St. Louis Street between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. for more than two consecutive hours. Said two-hour period
shall be construed to mean that period during which any vehicle remains in a
single parking space without being moved from such parking space.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.030)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
schedule shall be fined $5 for each offense.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.070)
(Ord. 87-2, passed - -1987; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015)
SCHEDULE IV. ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)    An exception to parallel parking as provided in §
71.03 is angle parking. Angle parking is permitted:
      (1)   On both sides of West Court Street;
      (2)   On the west side of East Court Street;
      (3)   On both sides of Elm Street between East Court Street and West
Court Street; and
      (4)   On the east side of Bryan Street along Meier’s Market.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.050)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
schedule shall be fined $5 for each offense.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.070)
(Ord. 87-2, passed - -1987; Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 98-6, passed - -
1998; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015)
SCHEDULE V. PARKING VEHICLES SEVEN FEET HIGH OR HIGHER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle or any other
vehicle, any part of which is seven feet or taller:
      (1)   Where posted or marked along St. Louis Street (Illinois Route 15)
and Mill Street (Illinois Route 127) within the city; or
      (2)   Within an R-1 or R-2 zoned area as designed on the official zoning
map for the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any motor vehicle or any other vehicle which is
carrying or has attached thereto any material which measures seven feet or more
from the ground to the top of such material to park:
      (1)   Where posted or marked along St. Louis Street (Illinois Route 15)
and Mill Street (Illinois Route 127) within the city; or
      (2)   Within an R-1 or R-2 zoned area as designated on the official
zoning map for the city.
(1978 Code, § 10.12.060)
(Ord. 87-2, passed - -1987; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
90.01   Running at large; dogs
   
90.02   Allowed on street; conditions
   
90.03   Impoundment; owner to pay costs
Animal Regulations
   
90.15   Running at large; animals
   
90.16   Running at large; fowls
Dogs and Cats Running At Large
   
90.30   Dogs or cats running at large prohibited
   
90.31   Confinement and leashing of animals required
   
90.32   Impoundment; City Marshal authority; time limit; notice requirements;
fees
   
90.33   Killing of animals at large
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to regulate and prohibit the running at large of animals
and to impose a tax on dogs, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9
DOGS
§ 90.01 RUNNING AT LARGE; DOGS.
   (A)   Allowing to run at large deemed unlawful. It is unlawful for any
person or persons to allow any dog to run at large within the city.
(1978 Code, § 6.04.010)
   (B)   Running at large; impoundment authorized; notice required;
disposition. It is the duty of the Chief of Police or any other person
authorized by the City Council to take all dogs running at large within the
corporate limits of the city and impound the same for ten days. Upon impounding
any dog, a notice thereof shall be posted at the City Hall and a copy thereof
mailed to the owner or owners, if known. All dogs that have been impounded for
more than ten days shall be killed or otherwise disposed of by the person
impounding them.
(1978 Code, § 6.04.030)
   (C)   Running at large; unable to capture; killing authorized. Any dog
running at large which the officers are unable to capture shall be killed in
the most convenient and expeditious manner.
(1978 Code, § 6.04.050)
(Ord. 431, passed - -1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 ALLOWED ON STREET; CONDITIONS.
   Any person owning a dog shall keep such dog chained or otherwise confined
upon his or her own premises, but may allow the dog upon the streets of the
city if such dog is in the custody and control of the owner or his or her agent
by a chain or leash.
(1978 Code, § 6.04.020) (Ord. 431, passed - -1973)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDMENT; OWNER TO PAY COSTS.
   The owner or owners of any dog impounded as provided in this subchapter
shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $25 for the first day or part thereof
that said dog is impounded and $3 for each day thereafter that said dog remains
impounded. No dog that has been impounded shall be released to its owner until
the costs provided for in this section are paid by the owner, and any dog whose
owner fails to pay said costs within ten days after said impoundment shall be
killed.
(1978 Code, § 6.04.040) (Ord. 431, passed - -1973; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
ANIMAL REGULATIONS
§ 90.15 RUNNING AT LARGE; ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person who is the owner, or has the possession of any
domestic animal of the species of horse, mule, cattle, ass, sheep, goats, or
swine to allow the same to run at large within the corporate limits of the
city, or turn the same loose for the purpose of grazing upon or along any
public street or alley of the city.
(1978 Code, § 6.08.010) (Ord. 22, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 RUNNING AT LARGE; FOWLS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons who shall be the owner, or who have
the possession of any domestic fowl of the species of goose, duck, or turkey to
suffer the same to run at large within the city.
(1978 Code, § 6.08.020) (Ord. 22, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.30 DOGS OR CATS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to allow any dog or cat to run at
large within the city limits of the city.
(1978 Code, § 6.12.010) (Ord. 552, passed - -1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.31 CONFINEMENT AND LEASHING OF ANIMALS REQUIRED.
   Any person owning a dog or cat shall keep such dog or cat chained or
otherwise confined upon his or her own premises but may allow the dog or cat
upon the streets of the city if such dog or cat is in the custody and control
of the owner or his or her agent by a chain or leash.
(1978 Code, § 6.12.020) (Ord. 552, passed - -1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.32 IMPOUNDMENT; CITY MARSHAL AUTHORITY; TIME LIMIT; NOTICE REQUIREMENTS;
FEES.
   (A)   Notice requirements.
      (1)   It is the duty of the city police or any other person authorized by
the City Council to take all dogs or cats running at large within the corporate
limits of the city and impound the same for ten days.
      (2)   Upon impounding any dog or cat, a notice thereof shall be posted at
the City Hall, and a copy thereof mailed to the owner or owners, if known. All
dogs or cats that have been impounded for more than ten days shall be killed or
otherwise disposed of by the person impounding them.
(1978 Code, § 6.12.030)
   (B)   Impoundment; redemption fees.
      (1)   The owner or owners of any dog or cat impounded as provided in this
subchapter shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $25 for the first day or part
thereof that said dog or cat is impounded, and $3 for each day thereafter that
said dog or cat remains impounded.
      (2)   No dog or cat which has been impounded shall be released to its
owner until the costs provided herein are paid by the owner, and any dog or cat
whose owner fails to pay said costs within ten days after said impoundment
shall be killed.
(1978 Code, § 6.12.040)
(Ord. 552, passed - -1981; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.33 KILLING OF ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   Any dog or cat running at large which the officers are unable to capture
shall be killed in the most convenient and expeditious manner.
(1978 Code, § 6.12.050)
(Ord. 552, passed - -1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Barbed wire fences
   
91.002   Porches, awnings, or signs standing on sidewalks
   
91.003   Encroachments
Curbs and Gutters
   
91.015   Specifications and construction requirements
   
91.016   Subgrade preparation
   
91.017   Forms
   
91.018   Concrete; mixture; specifications, storage, and mechanical mixture
required
   
91.019   Subgrade
   
91.020   Expansion joints
   
91.021   Curing
   
91.022   Backfill
   
91.023   Construction
   
91.024   Owner installing or replacing curb and gutter; procedure and rebate
   
91.025   Repair notice
   
91.026   Applicability of provisions
Obstructing Streets and Sidewalks
   
91.040   Causing obstruction; permission required
   
91.041   Removal order; failure to remove
   
91.042   Removal of obstruction; time specified; extension
   
91.043   Digging ditch; written permission
   
91.044   Offensive lot; obstructing gutter
   
91.045   Depositing rubbish; obstructing ditches
   
91.046   Obstructing sidewalk; removal notice and prohibitions
   
91.047   Gate opening out onto sidewalk
   
91.048   Extensions on sidewalk; porches, signs, and cellar doors
   
91.049   Cellar door or pit left open unprotected and endangering passengers
   
91.050   Fence or tree causing obstruction
   
91.051   Buildings materials causing obstruction
   
91.052   Excavated earth obstructing streets
   
91.053   Allowing animals to stand in crosswalk
   
91.054   Riding, driving, or leaving livestock on sidewalk
   
91.055   Removing building into or across the street
   
91.056   Building; removal notice; noncompliance
   
91.057   Placing or erecting building upon public grounds
   
91.058   Duty of Mayor or Chief of Police to cause removal of obstructions
Lake Nashville
   
91.070   Swimming or bathing
   
91.071   Discharging firearms permitted; game bird hunting regulations
   
91.072   Boating
   
91.073   Fishing
   
91.074   Swimming, camping, skiing, and the like
Excavations
   
91.085   Permit required
   
91.086   Incorporation of utility boring and excavation requirements and
excavation permit application
   
91.087   Application
   
91.088   Fees
   
91.089   Certificate of insurance
   
91.090   Deposit
   
91.091   Inspections; rules and regulations
   
91.092   Liability of persons to city of damage
   
91.093   Manner of excavating
   
91.094   Sidewalks
   
91.095   Restoring surface
   
91.096   Supervision
   
91.097   Tunneling
   
91.098   Protective measures and routing of traffic
   
91.099   Protection of traffic
   
91.100   Clearance for vital structures
   
91.101   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
91.102   Protection of adjoining property
   
91.103   Protection of watercourses
   
91.104   Placement of excavation material
   
91.105   Abandonment of substructures
   
91.106   Cleanup
   
91.107   Breaking through pavement
   
91.108   Depth of structures
   
91.109   Backfilling
   
91.110   Trenches in pipe laying
   
91.111   Prompt completion of work
   
91.112   Urgent work
   
91.113   Emergency action
   
91.114   Noise, dust and debris
   
91.115   Preservation of monuments
   
91.116   Location records
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to prevent and remove encroachments or obstructions upon
the streets and other municipal property, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
   Authorizing cities to provide for and regulate curbs and gutters, see 65
ILCS 5/11-80-11
   Authorizing cities to regulate and prevent the depositing of offensive
matter in and to prevent injury to streets and alleys, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-10
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   (A)   Building or maintaining prohibited. It is unlawful for any person or
persons to erect, build, or maintain a barbed wire fence upon or along any
sidewalk, public street, or alley within the corporate limits of the city.
(1978 Code, § 8.04.010)
   (B)   Declared nuisance; removal required; city to perform work; costs.
      (1)   Any barbed wire fence which has been erected upon or along any
sidewalk, public street, or alley within the city is declared a nuisance, and
the owner or parties erecting the same shall be notified in writing by the
Chief of Police to remove the same.
      (2)   After 30 days from the date specified in the notice for the removal
of said fence, the Chief of Police of the city shall proceed to remove the same
at the expense of such party or parties.
(1978 Code, § 8.04.020)
(Ord. 21 passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 PORCHES, AWNINGS, OR SIGNS STANDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to build or erect any
porch, sign, awning, or other structure that may stand upon posts upon any
sidewalk in the city.
      (2)   It is also unlawful for any person or persons now having any porch,
sign, awning, or other structure erected upon posts upon any sidewalk in the
city to rebuild the same.
   (B)   The City Street and Alley Committee is given full power to condemn and
remove, at the expense of the owner, any existing porch, sign, awning, or other
structure now standing upon any sidewalk in the city that in its judgment may
become dangerous or unsafe by reason of decay or other defects.
(1978 Code, § 12.12.010) (Ord. 36, passed - -1917; Ord. 585, passed - -1984)
Penalty, see §
91.999
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to regulate and prevent the use of streets, sidewalks,
and public property for signs, signposts, awnings, and awning posts, see 65
ILCS 5/11-80-8
§ 91.003 ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. The area lying between the project right-of-
way limits and the platted street limits which the city, by concurrence in the
establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state to enter
to perform all necessary construction operations.
      ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object
of any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located, or maintained in, on, under, or over any portion of the
project right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has been established.
      PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign,
or similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent
to the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building line and which does not impair the free and safe flow of traffic on
the highway, the permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be
construed as being applicable to those signs supported from poles constructed
outside the project right-of-way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
      PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the city and state, which will be free of encroachments
except as defined in this section.
      ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or
by fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary
easement during the time the easement is in effect.
(1978 Code, § 12.20.010)
   (B)   Erection unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to erect or cause to be erected, or to retain or cause to be
retained, any encroachment within the limits of the project right-of-way or
roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
(1978 Code, § 12.20.020)
   (C)   Project right-of-way lines established. Project right-of-way lines
have been established as being two feet behind the curb where curb exists and
as being coincidental with the right-of-way lines where no curb exists.
(1978 Code, § 12.20.030)
(Ord. 582, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
91.999
CURBS AND GUTTERS
§ 91.015 SPECIFICATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All curbs and gutters constructed in the streets and alleys within the
corporate limits of the city shall be of portland cement concrete and shall
conform to the specifications set forth in this subchapter and shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements as shown in the cross-section
drawing of a curb and gutter constructed as one operation, said drawing to be
found in the office of the Superintendent of Streets.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.010) (Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.016 SUBGRADE PREPARATION.
   The subgrade shall be excavated to the required depth below the finished
surface in accordance to the cross-section drawing which can be found in the
office of the Superintendent of Streets. All soft and yielding spots or other
unsuitable material shall be removed and replaced with suitable material, and
the subgrade shall be compacted thoroughly and finished to a firm, smooth
surface.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.020) (Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.017 FORMS.
   (A)   (1)   The forms shall be of wood or metal, straight and free from
warp, and of sufficient strength to resist springing during the process of
depositing the concrete against them. Wood forms shall consist of two-inch
surface planks.
      (2)   Metal forms shall be of approved section and shall have a flat
surface on top. They shall be so designed that divider plates or other devices
for holding the form in place will not cause planes of weakness in the concrete
and subsequent cracking.
   (B)   (1)   The forms shall be of a depth equal to the depth of the curbing,
and so designated as to permit of secure fastening together at the tops.
      (2)   They shall be securely staked, braced, held firmly to the required
line and grade, and shall be sufficiently tight to prevent leakage of mortar.
      (3)   All forms shall be cleaned thoroughly and oiled before concrete is
placed against them.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.030) (Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.018 CONCRETE; MIXTURE; SPECIFICATIONS, STORAGE, AND MECHANICAL MIXTURE
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Specifications.
      (1)   The concrete to be used for curb and gutter construction shall be
mixed as follows:
         (a)   One part by measurement, of any standard brand portland cement;
         (b)   Two to two and one-half parts by measurement, of fine aggregate
(sand, all passing one-quarter inch sieve); and
         (c)   Three to three-and-one-half parts by measurement, of coarse
aggregate (gravel or crushed stone).
      (2)   (a)   The fine aggregate shall consist of natural sand composed of
fine granular material and shall be free from injurious amounts of organic
impurities.
         (b)   The coarse aggregate shall conform in general to the following
sieve analysis specifications:
 
Sieve                               Percentage
Passing one and one-half inch sieve 100%
Passing one inch sieve              60-95%
Passing one-half inch sieve         10-30%
Passing No. 4 sieve                 0-5%
 
(1978 Code, § 12.04.040)
   (B)   Storage of aggregates and cement. All aggregates shall be stored on
clean, smooth hard surfaces, and cement kept dry under cover until used.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.050)
   (C)   Mechanical mixing required; exception.
      (1)   The concrete shall be mixed in a mechanical mixer of approved type,
for a period of not less than one minute. During this period of time, enough
water to produce a mixture which is workable and plastic, producing a slump of
not less than two inches or more than six inches, shall be introduced into the
mixer. Mixing time shall be extended if necessary to obtain thorough mixing and
uniform consistency. The entire contents of the mixer shall be discharged
before any materials are placed therein for the succeeding batch.
      (2)   The volume of material mixed per batch shall not exceed the
manufacturer’s rated capacity of the drum in cubic feet of mixed concrete.
Handmixing will not be permitted, except in case of emergency, and then only
after special permission has been granted.
1978 Code, § 12.04.060)
(Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.019 SUBGRADE.
   (A)   The subgrade and forms shall have been checked and approved by the
city before the concrete is placed. The concrete shall be placed on a moist
subgrade, deposited to the proper depth, tamped, and spaded sufficiently to
bring the mortar to the surface, after which it shall be finished smooth and
even by means of a wooden float. Before the concrete is given final finishing,
the surface of the gutter shall be checked with a straightedge and any
irregularities of more than one quarter-inch in ten feet shall be eliminated.
   (B)   It is permissible to construct such curb and gutter in continuous
operation with expansion joints placed as directed in division (C) below.
   (C)   Vertical construction joints spaced at not to exceed approximately 20-
foot intervals shall be constructed between expansion joints and shall be
formed by steel division plates which shall be removed after the concrete has
taken its initial set; or such curb and gutter may be laid in sections eight
feet in length, with properly shaped templates or rigid material being used for
strike-off boards.
   (D)   The curb shall be depressed across alleys and private driveways as
shown on the cross-section drawing on file in the office of the Superintendent
of Streets.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.070) (Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.020 EXPANSION JOINTS.
   One-inch open expansion joints shall be provided at 100-foot intervals,
which shall later be filled with tar, asphalt, or other suitable joint filler
material. At points where the proposed or existing sidewalks or driveway
pavement occupies the entire space between the proposed curb and an adjacent
building or permanent structure, a one-inch pre-molded or open expansion joint
shall be placed between the sidewalk or driveway pavement and the proposed
curb, and shall extend the entire depth of the sidewalk or driveway pavement.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.080) (Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.021 CURING.
   (A)   After the curb and gutter is completed, it shall be kept moist for a
period of not less than three days, and shall be protected from the elements in
a satisfactory manner. Either wetted burlap, wetted straw or wetted earth may
be used for curing purposes. The water for moisture is to be applied in the
form of a uniform spray, to avoid damage to the fresh concrete.
   (B)   When the minimum daily temperature is below 35°F, curing by the above
methods shall be omitted and the newly placed concrete shall be protected with
not less than eight inches of loose dry straw, which shall remain in place for
a period of not less than five days.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.090) (Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.022 BACKFILL.
   After the concrete has set sufficiently, the spaces in front and back of the
curb and gutter shall be refilled to the required elevation with suitable
material which shall be compacted until firm, solid, and neatly graded.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.100) (Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.023 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   City Council acceptance. The construction of all curbs and gutters in
the streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the city shall be under
the direction supervision of the Street and Alley Committee of the City
Council, or any person designated to establish lines, grades, and inspect the
actual construction work. No curb or gutter shall be accepted by the City
Council until the same has been examined and approved by the Street and Alley
Committee or any person designated by the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.110)
   (B)   Notice to owner; cost.
      (1)   In all cases where the Street and Alley Committee deems it
necessary to construct or repair a curb or gutter on the streets or alleys
within the city, notice shall be served upon the owner of the lot or lots
fronting along or touching on curbs or gutters, directing him or her to build
or repair the curb or gutter within 30 days, and in such notice shall be given
an estimate of the amount of material necessary for the construction or repair
of such curb or gutter and the way in which the same is to be constructed.
      (2)   In all cases where the owner of the lot or lots abutting or
fronting or directly opposite any curb or gutter to be built or repaired fails
to build or repair such curb or gutter within 30 days after the notice is
served upon, the city shall proceed to construct the curb or gutter or both,
and the cost of construction or repairing the curb and gutter shall be extended
against the property fronting or running along the same as a special tax.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.120)
   (C)   Special tax against owners; collection of warrants.
      (1)   The City Clerk is directed to prepare a special tax list against
all such parcels of land, lot, or lots or parts of lots, and the name of the
owner thereof, if known, ascertaining by computation the amount of special tax
to be charged against each parcel of land, and the owner or owners, if known,
on account of the construction and repair of the curb or gutter by the city,
which special tax list shall be filed in the office of the Clerk. The Clerk
shall thereupon issue warrants directed to the Chief of Police for the
collection of the amount of the special tax ascertained and prepared by the
special tax list, to be due on each parcel of land, from the respective owner
or owners, abutting or fronting upon the curb or gutter, and the Chief of
Police shall proceed to collect such warrants in the manner as constables are
authorized to collect executions, and make return thereof, together with the
money collected by him or her, to the Clerk within 60 days from the date of the
issue. The money so collected shall be immediately turned over to the City
Treasurer.
      (2)   In case any warrant is returned as to the whole or any part thereof
uncollected, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare in writing a special
tax list describing the parcel of land, the amount against which the same is
standing the remains unpaid upon each such parcel of land fronting or running
along the curb or gutter. Said list together with a copy of the ordinance
codified in this subchapter shall be certified to by the Clerk under oath that
the same is a correct return of the parcel of land on which special tax is
levied by authority of the city, for the cost of material and labor furnished
for such curb or gutter, as specified in this subchapter, and that the amounts
thereon stated are true and unpaid and have not been collected, nor any part
thereof. The Clerk shall make a return of the same to the Collector or County
Treasurer, not later than the March 15 each year. Thereupon, the Collector or
Treasurer shall proceed to collect the same according to the state statutes in
such cases made and provided.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.130)
(Ord. 104, passed - -1927; Ord. 224, passed - -1944)
§ 91.024 OWNER INSTALLING OR REPLACING CURB AND GUTTER; PROCEDURE AND REBATE.
   (A)   Any abutting property owner who wishes to install or replace curb and
gutter, sidewalks, or storm sewer on a city street shall follow the following
procedure.
      (1)   The property owner shall make application with the City Clerk
providing all pertinent information concerning the installation or replacement.
      (2)   The proposed installation or replacement must be approved by the
city prior to starting construction.
      (3)   After approval by the city, the property owner shall install or
replace the approved curb and gutter or sidewalks upon such terms or conditions
as may have been required by the Superintendent of Streets or City Engineer and
shall pay all costs thereof in full. The city will install the approved storm
sewer at its cost after the abutting property owner has purchased the storm
sewer pipe and has had it delivered to the construction site.
      (4)   The city will pay for all of its engineering costs in connection
with proposed installations or replacements under this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon completion of the installation or replacement in accordance with
all terms and conditions as required by the city and proof of payment in full
of all costs in connection with the installation or replacement, the City Clerk
will rebate to said abutting property owners as follows:
      (1)   Forty percent of the actual cost of the curb and gutter;
      (2)   Forty percent of the actual cost of the sidewalk; and
      (3)   Forty percent of the purchase price of the storm sewer.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.140) (Ord. 484, passed - -1976)
§ 91.025 REPAIR NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Committee on Streets and Alleys to inspect the
curbs and gutters on the streets and alleys of the city from time to time and,
when it finds any curbs or gutters in bad condition and in need of repairs, it
shall direct the Chief of Police to serve written notice upon the owner or
owners of the lot or lots fronting, abutting, or running along upon said curb
or gutter to repair and replace the same in good condition within 30 days from
the time such notice is served.
(1978 Code, § 12.04.150) (Ord. 104, passed - -1927)
§ 91.026 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply and be effective as to
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances which are located within the city
limits.
1978 Code, § 12.04.160) (Ord. 484, passed - -1976)
OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 91.040 CAUSING OBSTRUCTION; PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, or public ground by placing
thereon or therein any building or material, or any article or thing whatever,
without first having obtained written permission from the Mayor, under a
penalty as set forth by §
10.99, each day or part of a day such incumbrance or obstruction shall
continue.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.010) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 REMOVAL ORDER; FAILURE TO REMOVE.
   The Mayor is vested, under the supervision of the City Council, with the
general charge of streets and public grounds of the city and it is made his or
her duty, and also that of the Chief of Police to order the immediate removal
of any article or thing whatever that may encumber any street, alley, sidewalk,
or public grounds.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.020) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION; TIME SPECIFIED; EXTENSION.
   Every permission granted by the Mayor, or contemplated in §§
91.040 through
91.043 and
91.052 through
91.056, shall specify the time to be occupied in such removal, which time shall
in no case be longer than is absolutely required therefor, but such time may be
extended for good and sufficient cause.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.030) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917)
§ 91.043 DIGGING DITCH; WRITTEN PERMISSION.
   No person shall dig or cut any ditch, for the purpose of drainage or
otherwise, into, along, or across any street, alley, or public grounds, without
first obtaining written permission from the Mayor, under a penalty of $10.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.040) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.044 OFFENSIVE LOT; OBSTRUCTING GUTTER.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning any lot or parcel of land
adjoining any public or private alley in the city to keep the same clean and in
an inoffensive condition, and also to keep the gutter in front of the premises
owned or occupied by him or her under his or her control free from filth or
other offensive matter that may prevent the free flow of water therein.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.050) (Ord. 17, passed - -1917; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.045 DEPOSITING RUBBISH; OBSTRUCTING DITCHES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any grass, leaves, straw, dirt, filth,
chips, shells or other rubbish, on any street, alley or public place in the
city, or deposit or throw ashes, cinders, grass, leaves, or any rubbish in
ditches so as to stop the flow of water, under a penalty as set forth in §
10.99, and a like penalty for every 24 hours the same shall remain after notice
to remove the same, to be given by the Chief of Police.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.060) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.046 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALK; REMOVAL NOTICE AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Removal notice; refusal to comply. It is unlawful for any person or
persons to place or keep upon the sidewalk of the public streets of the city
any obstructions that may hinder free passage of persons on the same and the
Chief of Police shall notify all persons offending against this section to
remove such obstruction forthwith, and upon his, her, or their refusal to
comply with the notice within six hours, the Chief of Police shall cause such
person to be brought before a police magistrate or justice of the peace of the
city to answer such offense and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as set
forth in §
10.99 .
(1978 Code, § 12.08.070)
   (B)   Beyond three feet prohibited. No person shall place or cause to be
placed upon any sidewalk within the city any goods, wares, or merchandise, for
sale or show, beyond three feet from the front of the lot where such goods may
be exposed.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.080)
   (C)   Leaving filth; prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall obstruct or encumber any street, avenue, or alley
of the city, with any merchandise, fuel, or other articles longer than may be
necessary in the diligent removal of the same.
      (2)   No person shall throw, place, or leave or cause or permit to be
thrown, placed, or left, any ashes, dirt, grasses, leaves, filth, or rubbish in
or upon any street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk of the city in front of or
adjoining any building or premises owned or occupied by him or her or subject
to their control.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.090)
   (D)   Merchandise containers; prohibited. Whoever within the city limits
places or causes to be placed upon the sidewalk more than three feet from the
wall of the building in which business is done, any box, barrel, coop, or keg
or material of any kind or anything, in which merchandise has been or may be
shipped and allow the same to remain six hours after notice from the Chief of
Police, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99 .
(1978 Code, § 12.08.100)
(Ord. 16, passed - -1917; Ord. 17, passed - -1917; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.047 GATE OPENING OUT ONTO SIDEWALK.
   No gate or gates shall open out onto any sidewalk within the limits of the
city. Any person or persons refusing to comply with this section within 24
hours after being notified by the Chief of Police to do so, shall be punishable
as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.110) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917)
§ 91.048 EXTENSIONS ON SIDEWALK; PORCHES, SIGNS, AND CELLAR DOORS.
   (A)   Porch extending into sidewalk more than three feet prohibition;
notice; violation. No porch, stoop, steps, stairs, railing, platform, bay, or
other window, erected, or to be erected, within the city shall be allowed to
extend into or upon the sidewalk more than three feet.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.120)
   (B)   Signs projecting over sidewalk prohibited. No signs shall project from
any store or other building into or over any sidewalk or street, unless
elevated at least eight feet above the same, under a penalty as set forth in §
10.99  for each offense to any person violating any provisions of this section.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.130)
   (C)   Cellar door extending onto sidewalk prohibited; notice; violation. It
is unlawful for any person or persons to construct or continue any cellar door
or cellar opening, so the same will extend onto or in any sidewalk within the
city.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.140)
(Ord. 16, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.049 CELLAR DOOR OR PIT LEFT OPEN UNPROTECTED AND ENDANGERING PASSENGERS.
   Whosoever leaves open or permits to be left open any cellar door, basement
entrance, vault, cistern, well, ditch, or other like pit or hole on or
adjoining any street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk within the city without
securing or protecting the same so as not to endanger the safety of persons or
animals passing thereby from falling therein, shall be subject to a penalty as
set forth in §
10.99, and shall also be liable for all damages or injuries to persons or
property arising from such neglect and for any damages or that may be recovered
against the city in consequence thereof.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.150) (Ord. 17, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.050 FENCE OR TREE CAUSING OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)    Whenever the owner of any fence, tree, or other obstructions, upon
any street, alley, or sidewalk, or other public grounds in this city, refuses,
or neglects to remove the same within 24 hours after notice in writing by the
Chief of Police has been given the same shall be deemed a nuisance, and it
shall be lawful for the Mayor to cause the same to be removed or taken down,
and the expense thereof shall be recovered of the owner in an action of
assumpsit.
   (B)   Every person who shall oppose or resist the execution of the order of
the Mayor in the premises shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.160) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.051 BUILDINGS MATERIALS CAUSING OBSTRUCTION.
   The Mayor shall not grant permission to place or keep any building materials
in any part of the streets or alleys of the city for a longer time than 60
days, to be renewed at discretion of the Mayor. Such permission shall not
authorize the obstruction of more than one-half of the sidewalk and street,
except in cases of urgent necessity.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.170) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917)
§ 91.052 EXCAVATED EARTH OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   When it is necessary in grading or repairing any street or alley within the
city to remove the earth from any street alley for that purpose, the Mayor
under the direction of the City Council is authorized to cause such earth to be
removed to such place as he or she may deem for the interest of the city.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.180) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.053 ALLOWING ANIMALS TO STAND IN CROSSWALK.
   All crosswalks in the city shall be kept free from any wagons, carts,
carriages, and horses or other animals being placed or suffered to stand
thereon, except as may be necessary in crossing the same, and the owners or
drivers of any wagon, cart, carriage, or other vehicle, or horse or other
animal, offending against this section, shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.190) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.054 RIDING, DRIVING, OR LEAVING LIVESTOCK ON SIDEWALK.
   No person or persons shall lead, ride or drive along or across any sidewalk,
nor along or across that part of any street that is left for sidewalk purposes,
within the city limits, any horse, mule team, cow, or other animal (dogs
excepted), or drive thereon with any wagon, carriage, or other vehicle, except
when necessary to cross the same to get into a yard or lot when no suitable
crossing has been provided, under penalty as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.200) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.055 REMOVING BUILDING INTO OR ACROSS THE STREET.
   No person shall remove or cause to be removed or aid or assist in removing
any building into, along, or across any street, alley, or public ground in the
city, without first obtaining written permission from the Mayor and conforming
to such restrictions and conditions as he or she may describe, under a penalty
as set forth in §
10.99, to be recovered from the owner of the building and a penalty of $10 for
the first 24 hours, and $5 thereafter for every 24-hour period that the same
shall remain in or upon any street, alley, or public ground.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.210) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 BUILDING; REMOVAL NOTICE; NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The owner of any building now standing, or which may hereafter be erected or
placed upon any street, alley or public ground in the city, shall remove the
same within 60 days after he or she has been requested to do so by a notice in
writing signed by the Chief of Police under a penalty as set forth in §
91.040, additional for every 30 days the same remains after notice.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.220) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917)
§ 91.057 PLACING OR ERECTING BUILDING UPON PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   No person shall erect or place any building, in whole or in part, upon any
street, alley, or sidewalk, or other public grounds in the city under penalty
as set forth in §
10.99, and shall be liable for all costs that may be incurred in removing the
same.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.230) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.058 DUTY OF MAYOR OR CHIEF OF POLICE TO CAUSE REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor, or Police Chief to cause any obstructions
erected, placed, or continued, contrary to the provisions of this subchapter,
to be removed within a reasonable time after notice to that effect by either of
the officers aforesaid has been served upon the party or parties erecting,
placing, or continuing such obstructions, and the owners, agents, or parties
causing such obstruction or violation, shall pay all expenses or costs of such
removal, in addition to the penalty aforesaid.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.240) (Ord. 16, passed - -1917)
LAKE NASHVILLE
§ 91.070 SWIMMING OR BATHING.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to swim or bathe in Lake Nashville
located upon what is known as the waterworks property located east of the city
limits of the city and owned by the city.
(1978 Code, § 12.16.010) (Ord. 216, passed - -1942) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 DISCHARGING FIREARMS PERMITTED; GAME BIRD HUNTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to fire and discharge any
firearms or air guns upon any real estate owned by the city and lying outside
of the corporate limits thereof except at such time as federal and state
regulations permit the hunting or migratory game birds, including ducks,
brants, and geese, but excluding doves, and during such period of time only for
the purpose of hunting and taking ducks, brants, and geese by persons who are
bona fide residents of the city and owners of tracts adjacent to the water
works reservation tract upon which is located Lake Nashville.
   (B)   The hunting of such ducks, brants, and geese shall be subject to
regulations which will be promulgated from time to time by the Waterworks
Committee of the City Council, with full power in said Waterworks Committee to
restrict and limit such hunting and to exclude any person or persons who abuse
their privilege of hunting said migratory birds.
(1978 Code, § 12.16.020) (Ord. 216, passed - -1942; Ord. 221, passed - -1943)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 BOATING.
   (A)   Boating; conditions. The use of boats on Lake Nashville is permitted
only upon compliance with the following conditions:
      (1)   Any boat used on such lake shall be in good and safe and seaworthy
condition and shall be operated in a reasonable and safe manner;
      (2)   Motor sizes on boats used on such lake shall not exceed ten
horsepower;
      (3)   Areas of the lake which shall be off limits to boats shall from
time to time be established by the city, and shall be marked with floating
buoys, and trespass into such prohibited areas shall not be permitted;
      (4)   Permission must be obtained in order to place permanent docks or
facilities for boating and/or fishing use, and if such facilities are
established, such facilities must be maintained in a clean, sightly, safe, and
sanitary condition;
      (5)   Evidence of adequate insurance covering liability must be presented
to and approved by the city before a boat may be permitted to use the lake. A
policy covering any group or organization to whom the right to use boats upon
the lake may be from time to time granted, deposited with the city, shall be
sufficient evidence of compliance for all members of such group or
organization; and
      (6)   Permission to use the lake may be revoked by the city, or its
officers, agents, and employees, at any time without notice.
(1978 Code, § 12.16.030)
   (B)   Boating; special use agreements authorized when. The City Council may
from time to time enter into written agreements with any organization providing
for the exclusive use of the lake by members of the organization for boating
purposes, provided that any such written agreement or grant shall incorporate
the provisions set out in division (A) above, together with any additional
provisions which the Council may from time to time see fit to insert in such
grant or agreement.
(1978 Code, § 12.16.040)
(Ord. 343, passed - -1963; Ord. 560, passed - -1982)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 FISHING.
   (A)   Pole and line fishing only. Anglers must not use more than two poles,
and each pole must not have more than two hooks or lures attached while fishing
in Lake Nashville.
   (B)   Daily catch and size limits.
      (1)   Length is measured from the tip of the snout to the end of the tail
with the fish laid flat on a ruler, with the mouth closed and tail lobes
pressed together.
      (2)   No person may remove the head or tail of fishes to which length
limits apply while on the waters to which length limits apply. Regardless of
where taken, no fish less than the specified minimum length or more than the
daily catch shall be possessed on the waters to which length limits and/or
daily catch limits apply; and
      (3)   Limits by type of fish:
         (a)   Channel Catfish: daily catch limit is six fish;
         (b)   Largemouth Bass.
            1.   Daily catch limit is six fish; and
            2.   All largemouth bass taken must be 18 inches in total length or
longer.
(1978 Code, § 12.16.041)
(Ord. 560, passed - -1982; Ord. 577, passed - -1983) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.074 SWIMMING, CAMPING, SKIING, AND THE LIKE.
   Swimming, skiing, camping, rifle, pistol or air rifle shooting, and
littering are prohibited. No campfires shall be set. All boats left unattended
must be secured with a lock.
(1978 Code, § 12.16.010) (Ord. 560, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 91.085 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make any excavation in
any street, alley or other public place in the city without having obtained a
permit as required in this subchapter, or without complying with the provisions
of this subchapter, or in violation of or variance from the terms of any such
permit. A separate permit shall be required for each excavation or tunnel.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.086 INCORPORATION OF UTILITY BORING AND EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS AND
EXCAVATIONS PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The utility boring and excavation requirements and excavations permit
application attached to Ordinance 2015-1, are hereby incorporated by reference
and shall have the full effect of this subchapter as if fully set forth.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.087 APPLICATION.
   Applications for excavation and tunnel permits shall be submitted to the
City Clerk, and shall describe the location of the intended excavation or
tunnel, the size thereof, the purpose therefor, the person doing the actual
excavating work and the name of the person for whom the work is being done, and
shall contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with all ordinances
and laws relating to the work to be done. Applications shall be in the form
prescribed by the Superintendents of Utilities and Streets. If approved, the
permit shall be issued by the Superintendents of Utilities and Streets, or the
Superintendents’ designated representative.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.088 FEES.
   The fee for each permit shall be $25, and shall be paid at the time the
application is submitted to the City Clerk. Contractor shall deposit with the
City Clerk the sum of 5% as a refundable deposit, of the estimated cost of
construction, if the cost of construction exceeds $100,000. Such fees and
deposits may be waived at the discretion of the Superintendents of Utilities
and Streets, with the concurrence of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.089 CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   No excavation permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has filed with the City Clerk a certificate of insurance or other proof of
insurance in a minimum amount of $500 for the comprehensive general liability.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.090 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No excavation permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant
therefor has deposited with the City Clerk cash, money order, certified check
or cashier’s check deposit in the sum of:
 
Excavation in asphalt or Portland cement concrete pavement or surface $1,000
Excavation in oil treated street surface                              $500
Excavation in treated or unimproved street or surface                 $250
 
   (B)   This is to ensure the proper restoration of the ground and laying of
the pavement, if any. From this deposit shall be deducted the expense to the
city of cleanup, of relaying the surface of the ground or pavement and of
making the refill if this is done by the city or at its expense. From this
deposit shall also be deducted any other unpaid costs chargeable to the
permittee under this subchapter. The balance shall be returned to the applicant
without interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely and
satisfactorily refilled and the surface or pavement is restored.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.091 INSPECTIONS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Superintendents of Utilities and Streets shall make such inspections as
are reasonably necessary in the enforcement of this subchapter. The
Superintendents of Utilities and Streets shall have the authority to promulgate
and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be reasonably
necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.092 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO CITY OF DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provision of this subchapter and any person or
property in consequence hereof is injured or damaged, the person so guilty of
such violation shall be liable to the city in relation thereto, and no
prosecution or other proceeding by the city of such person for any penalty
imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the city for
such damages.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.093 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to make any excavation or tunnel in any way contrary to
or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper bracing shall be
maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and in excavations, the
excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any portion which extends
beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons maintaining
any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the city department or officer charged
with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or affected by the making
of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes, cables or conduits shall be
disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.094 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any excavation or tunnel, a temporary sidewalk
shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users. The temporary sidewalk is subject to inspection by the
Superintendents of Utilities and Streets and shall not be open for use until
approved by the Superintendents.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.095 RESTORING SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any public
street, alley or other public place in the city shall restore the surface to
its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refills shall be properly
tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the
ground.
   (B)   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the permittee under this subchapter in
compliance with this section and under the supervision of the Superintendents
of Utilities and Streets.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.096 SUPERVISION.
   The Superintendents of Utilities and Streets shall, from time to time,
inspect or cause to be inspected all excavations and tunnels being made in or
under any public street, alley or other place in the city to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this subchaper. Notice shall be given to the
Superintendents at least ten hours before the work of refilling any such tunnel
or excavation commences.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.097 TUNNELING.
   It is unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or sidewalk
in the city which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where necessary,
and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or excavated
under any such pavement provided that, upon completion of the work involved,
the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.098 PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It is the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or
upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for the safety of the general public.
   (B)   Barriers, warning signs, lights, and the like shall conform to the
requirements of all applicable city codes. Warning lights shall be electrical
markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset of each
day to sunrise of the next day. The warning lights shall emit light a
sufficient intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for
safety. Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not
replace, light sources.
   (C)   The permittee under this subchapter shall take appropriate measures to
assure that, during the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions
as near to normal as possible shall be maintained at all times so as to
minimize inconvenience to the occupants of the adjoining property and to the
general public.
   (D)   When traffic conditions permit, the Superintendents of Utilities and
Streets may, by written approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys to
all traffic for a period of time prescribed by the Superintendents if, in the
Superintendents’ opinion, it is necessary. Such written approval may require
that the permittee give notification to various public agencies and to the
general public. In such cases, such written approval shall not be valid until
such notice is given.
   (E)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street, and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Superintendents of Utilities and Streets.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.099 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   The permittee under this subchapter shall maintain safe crossings or two
lanes of vehicle traffic at all street intersections where possible and safe
crossings for pedestrians at intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any
excavation is made across any public street, alley or sidewalk, adequate
crossings shall be maintained for vehicles and for pedestrians. If the street
is not wide enough to hold the excavated material without using a part of the
adjacent sidewalk, a passageway of at least one-half of the sidewalk width
shall be maintained along such sidewalk line.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.100 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures and all other vital equipment as
designated by the Superintendents of Utilities and Streets.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.101 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The permittee under this subchapter shall not interfere with any
existing facility without the written consent of the Superintendents of
Utilities and Streets and the owner of the facility. If it shall become
necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done by its owner.
The facility owned by the city may be moved to accommodate the permittee if the
cost of such work is borne by the permittee. The cost of moving privately-owned
facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee unless it makes other
arrangements with the person owning the facility. The permittee shall support
and protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other
apparatus, which may be in any way affected by the excavation work, and do
everything necessary to support, sustain and protect them under, over, along or
across such work. The permittee shall secure approval of the method of support
and protection from the owner of the facility.
   (B)   In case any of the pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should
be damaged during excavation work, and for this purpose, pipe coating or other
encasement or devices are to be considered as part of a substructure, the
permittee shall promptly notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall
be repaired by the agency or person owning them, and the expense of such
repairs shall be charged to the permittee. It is the intent of this division
(B) that the permittee shall assume all liability for damage to facilities and
any resulting damage or injury to anyone because of such facility damage and
such assumption of liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The
only exception will be for such instances where damage is exclusively due to
the negligence of the owning utility. The city shall not be made a party to any
action because of this section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the
existence and location of all underground facilities and protect such
facilities against damage.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.102 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee under this subchapter shall, at all times, and at the
permittee’s own expense, preserve and protect from injury any adjoining
property by providing proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for
the purpose. Where, in the protection of such property, it is necessary to
enter upon private property for the purpose of taking appropriate protective
measures, the permittee shall obtain consent from the owner of such private
property for such purposes, and if he or she cannot obtain consent, the
Superintendents of Utilities and Streets may authorize the permittee to enter
the private premises solely for the purpose of making the property safe.
   (B)   The permittee under this subchapter shall, at its own expense, shore
up and protect all buildings, walls, fences, or other property likely to be
damaged during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for
all damage to public or private property or highways resulting from its failure
to properly protect and carry out such work. Whenever it may be necessary for
the permittee to trench through any lawn area, such area shall be reseeded or
the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been
backfilled as required in this subchapter. All construction and maintenance
work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth
and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed
before such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any
trees or shrubs which exist in parking street areas without first obtaining the
consent of the appropriate city department or official having supervision of
such property.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.103 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the
full depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the
face of such curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting
street, an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained.
   (B)   The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water,
muck, silt, slickings, or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting
from sluicing or other operations, and shall be responsible for any damage
resulting from its failure to so provide.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.104 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATION MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as not to
endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians, or users of the streets, and
so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets
and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Superintendents of Utilities and
Streets shall have the authority to require that the permittee haul the
excavated material to a storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at
the time of backfilling. It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure
the necessary permission and make all necessary arrangements for all required
storage and disposal sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the
Superintendents of Utilities and Streets. Whenever necessary in order to
expedite the flow of traffic or to abate a dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or
bins may be required by the Superintendents to prevent the spreading of dirt
into traffic lanes.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.105 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using,
controlling or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, file with the Superintendents of Utilities and Streets a statement
in writing giving in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If
such abandoned substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes in the way of
an installation of the city or any other public body, which installation is
pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove such abandoned
substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of excavation for
construction of the facility by the city or any other public body.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.106 CLEANUP.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned
of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work.
All cleanup operations at the location of such excavation shall be accomplished
at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of
the Superintendents of Utilities and Streets. From time to time as may be
ordered by the Superintendents, and, in the event, immediately after the
completion of such work, the permittee shall, at the permittee’s own expense,
clean up and remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from
such work, and upon failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified
to do so by the Superintendent, such work may be done by the Superintendents
and the cost thereof charged to the permittee.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.107 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Superintendents
of Utilities and Streets when the use endangers existing substructures or other
property.
   (B)   Saw cutting of Portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one-inch in depth, however, depths
greater than one-inch may be required by the Superintendents when circumstances
warrant. Saw cutting may be required by the Superintendents outside the limits
of the excavation over cave outs, over breaks and small floating sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Superintendents to confine pavement damage to the limits
of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave outs and over breaks and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the centerline of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Superintendents.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his or her cut results in small floating sections
that may be unstable, in which case the permittee shall remove and pave the
area.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.108 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall, without written permission of the Superintendents of
Utilities and Streets, install any substructure except manholes, vaults, valve
casings, culverts and catch basins at a vertical distance less than:
      (1)   Streets. On streets, 24 inches below the established flow line of
the nearest gutter. If such flow line is not established, then the depth shall
be at a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street.
      (2)   Parkways. On parkways:
         (a)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 16 inches below
established gutter grade when such substructure parallels the parkway.
         (b)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 12 inches below
the top of the established sidewalk or curb when such substructure is at right
angles to the parkway.
      (3)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shal1 impose a duty upon the permittee to
maintain the specifications required in this section upon subsequent changes of
grade in the surface unless the grade in such substructure interferes with the
maintenance of or travel on a public street.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.109 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil shall
be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the
type of soil involved and the degree of consolidations specified by the City
Council or Superintendents of Utilities and Streets. Broken pavement, large
stones, roots and other debris shall not be used in the backfill.
   (B)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of
soil involved. Backfilling shall be done in a manner that will permit the
restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that existing
prior to excavation, unless otherwise specified. The Superintendents may
require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory or
registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in their
opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being adequately compacted. In
order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show that the
backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the City
Council or Superintendents. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the
permittee.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.110 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.111 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.112 URGENT WORK.
   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public,
or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Superintendents of Utilities and Streets shall have full
power to order that a crew and adequate facilities be employed by the permittee
24 hours a day to the end that such excavation work may be completed as soon as
possible.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.113 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavation as may be necessary for the preparation of life or property, or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making such excavation shall, where practicable, first obtain
oral permission, either by phone or otherwise, from the Superintendents of
Utilities and Streets. Such person shall apply for a permit on the first
working day after such work is commenced.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.114 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce, to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris, and between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. of each day and 7:00 a.m. of the next day shall not use, except in case
of emergency as otherwise provided in this subchapter, any tool, appliance or
equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose
of occupants of neighboring property.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.115 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision or a precise survey reference point, or a
permanent survey benchmark within the city, shall not be removed or disturbed
or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in
writing from the Superintendents of Utilities and Streets to do so. Permission
to remove or disturb such monuments, reference points or benchmarks shall only
be granted upon condition that the person applying for such permission shall
pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of such monument by the
city.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.116 LOCATION RECORDS.
   Every public utility shall maintain records showing the location of all of
its underground facilities except relatively minor facilities which connect a
particular premises or building to a facility serving more than one premises or
building, and except oil or gas gathering or field lines. Every public utility
shall maintain equipment, which can locate such facilities in the field.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
91.001 shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 8.04.010)
      (2)   If the party so notified does not remove the same within 30 days
from the date of such notice, they shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 and shall pay a penalty of $2 per day for each day such fence is
permitted to stand after the time specified in such notice has expired.
(1978 Code, § 8.04.020)
   (C)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
91.002 shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 12.12.020)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
91.003 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(1978 Code, § 12.20.040)
   (E)   Pursuant to §
91.041, if such article or thing is removed within 24 hours after notice to the
owner thereof to remove the same, or, if the owner cannot be found for the
purpose of such notice, to cause the same to be removed to some suitable place
to be designated by the Mayor, the owner of any such article so removed shall
forfeit a penalty of not less than $2 nor more than $5 in addition to the costs
of such removal.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.020)
   (F)   Any person violating §
91.044 shall, upon conviction, be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.050)
   (G)   Any person violating §
91.046 shall, upon conviction, be punishable under the provisions of §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.090)
   (H)   (1)   Any violation of §
91.048(A) shall subject the offender to a penalty as set forth in §
10.99 for each and every day such violation shall continue, after notice from
the Chief of Police to remove the same.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.120)
      (2)   Any violation of §
91.048(C) shall subject the offender to a penalty as set forth in §
10.99 for each and every day such violation shall continue, after notice from
the Chief of Police.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.140)
   (I)   Any person or persons who shall obstruct, aid, or abet any person or
persons in obstructing the Mayor in the discharge of his or her duties as
prescribed in §
91.052 shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 12.08.180)
   (J)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
91.070 through
91.074, shall, upon conviction be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, §§ 12.16.050 and 12.16.060)
(Ord. 16, passed - -1917; Ord. 17, passed - -1917; Ord. 21, passed - -1917;
Ord. 36, passed - -1917; Ord. 216, passed - -1942; Ord. 560, passed - -1982;
Ord. 582, passed - -1984; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Fluoride
   
92.002   Slaughterhouses
Nuisances
   
92.015   Nuisances generally defined
   
92.016   Types of enumerated nuisances
   
92.017   Unlawful acts designated
   
92.018   Voluntary correction
   
92.019   Demolition derby vehicles
   
92.020   Abandoned vehicles
   
92.021   Weeds
Liquefied Petroleum Gases
   
92.035   Definition
   
92.036   License; application, fee, application requirements, and the like
   
92.037   Standards for equipment and storage facilities
   
92.038   Inspections
   
92.039   Public utility requirements
Confined Space Entry Policy
   
92.050   Purpose; definition
   
92.051   Hazards
   
92.052   Safety precautions
   
92.053   Testing and monitoring
   
92.054   Labeling and posting
   
92.055   Rescue procedures
   
92.056   Training
Open Burning
   
92.070   Purpose
   
92.071   Definitions
   
92.072   Control of open burning
   
92.073   Exceptions to restrictions on open burning
   
92.074   Construction
 
   
92.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Confined Spaces
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to define, prevent, and abate nuisances, see 65 ILCS 5/
11-60-2
   Authorizing cities to regulate the storage of combustible materials, see 65
ILCS 5/11-8-4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 FLUORIDE.
   Upon receiving the approval of the State Department of Public Health, and
until further direction of the City Council, the Waterworks and Sewerage
Department is authorized and directed to provide the means and to proceed with
the addition of approximately one and not more than one and one-half parts of
fluoride to every million parts of water being distributed in the water supply
system of the city.
(1978 Code, § 8.08.010) (Ord. 311, passed - -1956)
§ 92.002 SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   (A)   Operation; permission required; application; contents. No person,
firm, or corporation shall, within the limits of this city, carry on the
business of butchering or slaughtering animals or building, conducting,
maintaining, or operating what is commonly called a slaughterhouse,
packinghouse, or tannery without permission from the City Council, which shall
have been first obtained on written application stating in detail the nature
and character of the slaughterhouse, packinghouse, or tannery, the
accessibility of the premises to sewerage and water facilities, the name of the
person, firm, or corporation applying thereof, and a statement that such
applicant will comply with the provisions of this section and all other
ordinances of this city; provided, however, that this section shall not be
construed to include persons who slaughter stock or who have stock slaughtered
for them on their own premises for their own use and do not sell or offer to
sell any of the meat so butchered.
(1978 Code, § 8.20.010)
   (B)   Connection with city sewerage system; requirements. Any such
slaughterhouse or packinghouse may be connected with a public sewer emptying or
discharging into the sanitary sewerage system of this city; provided, that
proper inlets, catchbasins, and bell traps and all other facilities meet with
the approval of the city; and provided, that wastes shall be handled in the
following manner.
      (1)   Such packinghouse or slaughterhouse shall be connected with the
public water system in such a manner that same may be easily and readily
flushed with water under pressure.
      (2)   A grease trap on the outlet sewer line shall be provided with
sufficient capacity to provide a five minute detention of wastes.
      (3)   The floor and slaughter room should be cleared of all paunch
manure, bits of flesh, fats, intestines, hides, hair, and blood prior to
flushing and cleaning the room and discharging such cleansing water into the
sewer.
      (4)   All such offal and excrement from the slaughtering of animals shall
be removed from the premises at least daily to some place outside the limits of
this city and, until so removed, shall be kept in an air-tight container or
barrel, and so kept and removed through the streets of this city in such air-
tight container or barrel.
(1978 Code, § 8.20.020)
   (C)   Offensive accumulation of hides deemed nuisance; tallow rendering and/
or tanning prohibited. It is unlawful to accumulate hides at such
slaughterhouses or packinghouses to the extent or in such a manner that the
same becomes a nuisance by emitting obnoxious or offensive smells, and the
rendering of tallow or the process of tanning as it is known in this connection
is strictly prohibited and forbidden.
(1978 Code, § 8.20.030)
(Ord. 213, passed - -1942) Penalty, see §
92.999
NUISANCES
§ 92.015 NUISANCES GENERALLY DEFINED.
   (A)   A nuisance consists of doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or permitting an action or condition to occur or exist which intrudes on
the ability of neighbors or citizens to use or enjoy their properties or public
property adjacent to where the nuisance occurs.
   (B)   Such nuisances include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Unsecured attractive nuisances;
      (2)   Conditions or acts which annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort,
repose, health or safety of others;
      (3)   Conditions or acts which are offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Conditions or acts which interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage of any stream, public park, parkway,
square, sidewalk, street, or highway and other rights-of-way in the city;
      (5)   Illicit discharges into the municipal storm drainage system;
      (6)   Conditions or acts which obstruct the free use of property so as to
essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property;
      (7)   Conditions or acts which lead to blight and contribute to the
deterioration of property value of the neighboring or adjoining property; and
      (8)   The improper parking or storage of vehicles on any residential lots
which impedes the use of yard areas for light, air circulation, recreation and
landscaping.
(1978 Code, § 8.16.010) (Ord. 15, passed - -1917; Ord. 87-10, passed - -1987;
Ord. 2015-5, passed 7-16-2015)
§ 92.016 TYPES OF ENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   (A)   Each of the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions,
and things are hereby declared to be nuisances, and unless otherwise permitted
by law, are declared to constitute a public nuisance, and whenever the city
official determines that any of these conditions exist, the city official may
require or provide for the abatement thereof pursuant to this subchapter, or as
otherwise authorized by law.
   (B)   The erecting, maintaining, using, placing, depositing, causing,
allowing, leaving, or permitting to be or remain in or upon any private lot,
building, structure, or premises, or in or upon any street, avenue, alley,
park, parkway or other public or private place in the city, of any one or more
of the following places, conditions, things, or acts to the prejudice, danger,
or annoyance of others:
      (1)   Excavations or naturally occurring holes, including, but not
limited to, privies, vaults, cesspools, sumps, pits, wells, or any other
similar conditions, which are not secure and which constitute a concealed
danger or other attractive nuisances;
      (2)   The discharge of sewage, human excrement, or other wastes in any
location or manner, except through systems approved for the conveyance of such,
to approved public or private disposal systems and which are constructed and
maintained and authorized by this code;
      (3)   Filthy, littered, trash-covered, or overgrown premises abutting
street and alley rights-of- way, to include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Accumulation, handling, or removal of human or animal waste
including bones, meats, hides, skins, or any part of the animal, fish, or fowl,
from the premises;
         (b)   Overgrown, uncultivated, or unkempt vegetation of any type,
including, but not limited to shrubs, brush, trees, weeds, blackberries, and
grasses over one foot in height. Where erosion control issues or indigenous
species are present, an exception or modification may be made to these
requirements;
         (c)   Inappropriate disposal or accumulation of vegetation waste,
including, but not limited to, grass clippings, cut brush, cut trees and/or
weeds;
         (d)   An accumulation of garbage, litter, debris, rubble, hazardous
waste, or blight, which includes, but is not limited to, improperly stored
bottles, cans, paper, glass, plastic, cardboard, metal auto parts, tires, scrap
wood, discarded or broken appliances, furniture, equipment, bicycles or parts
thereof, barrels, boxes, crates, pallets, mattresses, clothing, household
goods, construction materials, lumber, metal, improperly piled or stored
firewood, or anything in which flies may breed or multiply, which provides
harborage for rats, or other vermin, or which may be a fire hazard; or
         (e)   Inoperable, abandoned, disassem- bled, or dilapidated
appliances, machinery, or vehicles. This particular provision shall not apply
to lawfully operated storage facilities.
      (4)   The existence of any fences or other structures which are in a
falling, decayed, dilapidated or unsafe condition;
      (5)   Any unsightly, abandoned, burned out, uninhabited, or deteriorated
building or structure; or any building or structure constructed with
inappropriate materials, or improperly fastened together or anchored against
the forces of nature, or contrary to building standards and duly adopted
building codes;
      (6)   The existence of any places which are likely to attract flies,
mosquitoes, and vermin, or which are foul or malodorous, including, but not
limited to, privies, vaults, cesspools, sumps and pits;
      (7)   The existence of any junk or refuse on any premises;
      (8)   The existence of any noxious weeds, growing or otherwise, without
the proper retention in a covered receptacle, including, but not limited to,
poison oak, poison ivy, Russian thistle or other such weeds;
      (9)   The existence of items that may become a fire hazard;
      (10)   The existence of any fence or other structure or thing on private
property which is sagging, leaning, fallen, decayed, dilapidated or in an
unsafe condition;
      (11)   The existence of any graffiti; or
      (12)   All property left in the public right-of-way, including, but not
limited to any personal and household items, furniture, appliances, machinery,
equipment, building materials, or other items, including property left on the
public right-of-way as a result of an eviction or a forcible entry and detainer
or unlawful action. Any such property left in the right-of-way for more than 48
hours shall be deemed abandoned and is hereby declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 7-16-2015)
§ 92.017 UNLAWFUL ACTS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any responsible person, owner, or tenant, to
permit, maintain, suffer, carry on or allow upon any premises any of the acts
or things declared by this subchapter or any other ordinance of the city to be
a public nuisance.
   (B)   Every responsible person, owner or tenant of such premises located in
close proximity to an occupied dwelling unit shall keep such premises so as to
prevent rodent, insect, or other pest infestation, and to prevent fire hazards.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 7-16-2015) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.018 VOLUNTARY CORRECTION.
   (A)   This section applies whenever the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, determines that a nuisance is occurring.
   (B)   The official shall pursue a reasonable attempt to secure voluntary
correction by contacting the person responsible for the nuisance, where
possible, explaining the nuisance and requesting correction.
   (C)   A voluntary correction agreement may be entered into between the
person responsible for the nuisance and the city, acting through the official.
      (1)   The voluntary correction agreement is a contract between the city
and the person responsible for the nuisance under which such person agrees to
abate the nuisance within a specified time and according to specified
conditions. The voluntary correction agreement shall include the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the person responsible for the nuisance;
         (b)   The street address or a description sufficient for
identification of the building, structure or premises upon which or within
which the nuisance is occurring;
         (c)   A description of the nuisance;
         (d)   The necessary corrective action to be taken and a date or time
by which correction must be completed;
         (e)   An agreement by the person responsible for the nuisance that the
city may inspect the premises as may be necessary to determine compliance with
the voluntary correction agreement;
         (f)   An agreement by the person responsible for the nuisance that the
city may abate the nuisance and recover its costs and expenses, including
attorneys’ fees, and a monetary penalty pursuant to this subchapter from the
person responsible for the nuisance if terms of the voluntary correction
agreement are not met; and
         (g)   An agreement that by entering into the voluntary correction
agreement, the person responsible for the nuisance waives the right to an
appeal of the nuisance and/or the required corrective action.
      (2)   The person responsible for the nuisance waives the right to an
appeal of the nuisance and the required corrective action upon entering into a
voluntary correction agreement.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to inspect the subject property to
determine compliance with the terms of the voluntary correction agreement.
      (4)   An extension of the time limit for correction or a modification of
the required corrective action may be granted by the official if the person
responsible for the nuisance has shown due diligence and/or substantial
progress in abating the nuisance but unforeseen circumstances render abatement
under the original conditions unattainable.
      (5)   The city may abate the nuisance if the terms of the voluntary
correction agreement are not met.
      (6)   If the terms of the voluntary correction agreement are not met, the
person responsible for the nuisance shall be assessed a monetary penalty
commencing on the date set for correction and thereafter, in accordance with §
10.99, plus all costs and expenses of abatement.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 7-16-2015) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.019 DEMOLITION DERBY VEHICLES.
   (A)   DEMOLITION DERBY VEHICLES as used in this section is defined as any
vehicle used or intended to be used in a demolition derby.
   (B)   It is unlawful and a nuisance to construct, maintain, repair, run,
and/or store any demolition derby vehicles unless said vehicle is actively
participating in a demolition derby or said vehicle is in an enclosed building.
   (C)   It is unlawful and a nuisance to construct, maintain, repair, or run
any demolition derby vehicles not actively participating in a demolition derby,
except from 3:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, and from 12:00
noon to 9:00 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (D)   Any person who has received written notice from the Chief of Police to
remove a demolition derby vehicle shall proceed to remove said demolition derby
vehicle within 24 hours or within such time as is deemed reasonable by the
Chief of Police; however, the length of time shall not exceed 45 days.
(1978 Code, § 8.16.060) (Ord. 2001-3, passed - -2001; Ord. 2015-5, passed 7-16-
2015) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.020 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is left at any place for such time
and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to
have been abandoned.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
         (a)   Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least 45 days,
the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine,
wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that
the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
         (b)   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE does not include a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations, nor to any motor
vehicles that are kept within a building when not in use, to historic vehicles
over 25 years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of
business engaged in wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization of any kind.
      PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
      VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, runners, treads, or slides, and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon.
(1978 Code, § 10.20.010)
   (B)   Abandoning vehicle prohibited. No person shall abandon any vehicle
within the city, and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the
city, for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle
reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(1978 Code, § 10.20.020)
   (C)   Inoperable motor vehicle deemed nuisance. Inoperable motor vehicles,
as defined in this section, are a nuisance.
(1978 Code, § 10.20.030)
   (D)   Disposition of inoperable motor vehicle; required upon receipt of
notice. All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicle
under their control upon written notice received from the corporate authorities
or from the Chief of Police or any member of his or her Department designated
by him or her commanding such disposition of said inoperable motor vehicle.
(1978 Code, § 10.20.040)
   (E)   Impoundment authorized. The corporate authorities or any person
designated by them or the Chief of Police or any member of his or her
Department designated by him or her is authorized to remove or have removed any
vehicle left at any place within the city which reasonably appears to be in
violation of this section or which reasonably appears to be lost, stolen, or
unclaimed, or which is an inoperable vehicle as defined in division (A) above.
Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in
accordance with 625 ILCS 5/4-207 and 4-208.
(1978 Code, § 10.20.050)
(Ord. 417, passed - -1971; Ord. 621, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory references:
   Abandoned vehicles, see 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.
§ 92.021 WEEDS.
   (A)   Declared nuisance. It is a public nuisance to permit weeds to grow 12
inches or more in height on any real estate located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.010)
   (B)   Notice to abate; City Clerk to issue. The City Clerk shall notify the
owner, tenant, or person in charge, if the owner, tenant ,or such person in
charge can be notified, to abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.020)
   (C)   City to abate when; city right to prosecute for misdemeanor retained.
Five days after due notice has been given to the owner, tenant, or person in
charge by the City Clerk, or if the City Clerk is unable to give such notice,
then the nuisance may be abated by the city officials at the owner’s expense,
whether or not prosecution for the misdemeanor has been instituted. Such
abatement by the city shall not bar the city’s right to institute or maintain
the proceeding for said misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.040)
(Ord. 401, passed - -1969) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to destroy weeds at the expense of the owners of the
premises on which the weeds are growing, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-6 and 11-20-7
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES
§ 92.035 DEFINITION.
   LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES as used in this section, means and includes any
material which is composed predominantly of any of the following hydrocarbons,
or mixtures of them: propane; propylene; butanes (normal butane or isobutane);
and butylenes.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.010) (Ord. 282, passed - -1952)
§ 92.036 LICENSE; APPLICATION, FEE, APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   License required; exception. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to store, install, distribute, or deliver, within the city any
liquefied petroleum gases over 100 pounds, as defined in §
92.035, whether said liquefied petroleum gases are in bottled containers or in
bulk; distributed and delivered by or from any tank wagon, truck, or vehicle
operated within the city, and upon any public street or public way of the city;
without first procuring a license therefor as required in this subchapter;
provided, however, that the license required shall not be imposed upon any
public utility holding a franchise with the city to engage in the business of
supplying natural or artificial gas to residents in the city. In B-1 and M-
1 zoning districts, any tank greater than 100 pounds shall be enclosed with a
six-foot high locking fence, and said tanks shall be licensed by the city.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.020)
   (B)   License; fee. 
      (1)   The annual license fee required for every person, firm, or
corporation under the provisions of this subchapter shall entitle the licensee
to operate within the city and over the public streets or public ways, wagons,
trucks, or vehicle for the handling, distribution, or delivery of liquefied
petroleum gases as defined in this subchapter.
      (2)   Temporary licenses for construction or emergencies may be permitted
when approved by the Mayor and City Utilities Superintendent.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.030)
   (C)   License; application requirements; standard for compliance.
Application for such licenses shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall state
the name and address of the person, firm, or corporation desiring to obtain a
license; the type of the liquefied petroleum gases to be handled, installed,
distributed or delivered; and an express agreement with the city, that if a
license shall be granted upon such application, the applicant will comply with
all of the standards of the National Fire Protection Association NFPA 58,
Standard for the Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases 2002
Edition, as the same may be changed, altered, or amended from time to time.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.040)
   (D)   License; issuance conditions. No person, firm, or corporation shall be
entitled to a license hereunder, unless with his or her application for
license, he or she shall agree with the city to comply with all of the
standards of the National Fire Protection Association for the design,
installation, and construction of containers and pertinent equipment for the
storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases, as the same shall be
embodied in NFPA 58 by the National Fire Protection Association, Standard for
the Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases, and as the same may be
amended, changed, or altered from time to time, and provided further, that the
applicant for such license, as is herein provided for, shall make and show
proof of financial responsibility to the satisfaction of the issuing officials
of such license, and shall also show proof of insurance.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.050)
   (E)   License; City Council to determine application; approval procedure.
      (1)   Upon the receipt of a license application, the City Clerk shall
immediately notify the City Council of such application, and it shall be the
duty of the City Council to ascertain and determine whether the applicant shall
be equipped to comply with the standards of NFPA 58 aforesaid, in the storage,
installation, handling, distribution, and delivery of the liquefied petroleum
gases.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to ascertain and
determine, in the event that the applicant intends to store liquefied petroleum
gases within the city, whether the location and construction or maintenance of
said storage facilities shall be in compliance with the ordinance of the city
relating to buildings under the building code, and relating to zoning
requirements under the zoning ordinance, and any other ordinances of the city
regarding the handling, storage, installation, distribution, and delivery of
liquefied petroleum gases within the city which are or may be adopted from time
to time.
      (3)   In the event that a favorable report is made by the City Council or
inspector for the City Council, then the City Clerk, upon the payment by the
applicant of the license fee required in this subchapter to the City Treasurer,
shall forthwith issue a license to said applicant, and the licensee shall hold
such license subject to the terms of this subchapter. The period covered by the
license shall be from March l of the particular year to February 28 of the
following year. (1978 Code, § 8.12.070)
(Ord. 282, passed - -1952; Ord. 2004-3, passed - -2004; Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-
6-2017) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.037 STANDARDS FOR EQUIPMENT AND STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   No storage tanks shall be placed underground; all tanks of more than
50 gallons water capacity shall be at least 18 inches above ground at the
lowest point and all tanks of more than 50 gallons’ water capacity shall be
five feet from any building.
   (B)   No storage tank or receptacle of any kind which is of a stationary
character having a water capacity of more than 500 gallons shall be used within
the city limits, except for bulk plants, which will be allowed in both B-1 and
M-1 zoning districts, provided they can meet all standards and setbacks as
stated in NFPA 58.
   (C)   All tanks shall be set on poured-concrete foundations, and all tanks
of more than 50-gallon water capacity shall be set on such poured-concrete
foundations and/or footings. Foundations or footings for such tanks exceeding
50 gallons’ water capacity shall be poured and placed to solid footing not less
than two feet below the surface of the ground.
   (D)   All underground lines to and from any tank shall be buried with not
less than 30 inches coverage of dirt or other protective material, and all such
underground lines shall be of black pipe, tarred, and wrapped, or of Type K
copper tubing; all such underground lines shall be tested to not less than 60
pounds’ air pressure, such testing to be under the supervision of the City
Utility Superintendent, or other official designated to make such inspections
by the City Council, and provided that such inspector shall be paid the sum of
$2 for each inspection of underground lines.
   (E)   All underground pipes shall be brought to the surface of the ground,
and shall extend at least 14 inches above the surface of the ground before
entering any building.
   (F)   Upon approval by the City Council, no liquid takeoffs shall be affixed
to or used on any stationary storage tank or receptacle within the city, except
for bulk plants, which will be allowed in both B-1 and M-1 zoning districts.
Said take-off shall be fenced, shall be five feet from any structure, and no
less than 20 feet from the property line.
   (G)   Regulators are to be above ground, and securely covered.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.060) (Ord. 282, passed - -1952; Ord. 2004-3, passed - -2004;
Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-6-2017) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.038 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council or named inspector and the city shall have the power
at any time, and from time to time, to inspect any facilities for storage and
handling of the products covered by this subchapter, including the installation
of any equipment or facilities for the use of said products, in order to
ascertain and determine whether or not the licensee shall be complying with the
standards of the NFPA 58 as now existing or as shall be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   In the event that he or she shall find that the licensee is not
complying with such standards, then the license shall be subject to revocation
by proper action by the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.080) (Ord. 282, passed - -1952; Ord. 2004-3, passed - -2004)
§ 92.039 PUBLIC UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Although a public utility who may or shall hold a franchise with the city,
as provided in §
92.036(A), shall not be subject to the license imposed in this subchapter, such
public utility shall otherwise be subject to the regulatory features of this
subchapter pertaining to the standards required by NFPA 58 as the same may be
amended from time to time, where such public utility may be handling, storing,
installing, distributing, or delivering liquefied petroleum gases as defined in
this subchapter, provided same are not in conflict with the proper rules and
regulations and jurisdiction of the State Commerce Commission pertaining to
such public utility.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.090) (Ord. 282, passed - -1952; Ord. 2004-3, passed - -2004)
CONFINED SPACE ENTRY POLICY
§ 92.050 PURPOSE; DEFINITION.
   (A)   Purpose. Among the potentially dangerous workplace tasks is entering
into confined spaces to perform work. Confined spaces can be death traps for a
number of workers who do not follow basic safety precautions before entering
these hazardous work areas.
   (B)   Definition. A CONFINED SPACE may be generally defined as any area
which has limited means of ingress and egress and is subject to an oxygen-
deficient atmosphere or the accumulation of toxic, explosive, or flammable
atmospheres. Examples of such areas include sewers, sewage digesters, lift
stations, holding tanks, and pipelines.
(1978 Code, § 8.28.010) (Ord. 92-2, passed - -1992)
§ 92.051 HAZARDS.
   Oxygen deficiency, explosive gases, flammable gases, and toxic gases and
condensation occur in confined spaces. Otherwise, innocuous conditions are
exacerbated when they occur in a confined space.
   (A)   Oxygen deficiency. Air normally contains 21% oxygen. Air containing
less than 19.5% oxygen is dangerous and air containing 16% or less oxygen can
be lethal. In a confined space, oxygen-deficient atmospheres are produced by
two factors:
      (1)   The consumption, without replacement, of oxygen by some means such
as a reaction of oxygen with container walls as in rusting, or by flames and
internal combustion engines; and
      (2)   The displacement of oxygen by another gas such as methane, hydrogen
sulfide, or carbon dioxide.
   (B)   Accumulation of toxic or combustible gas. A number of gases commonly
encountered in confined spaces include:
      (1)   Carbon monoxide, a toxic and sometimes explosive gas which is
colorless, odorless, and nonirritating. It is produced by internal combustion
engines as well as various other processes;
      (2)   Hydrogen sulfide has the distinctive odor of rotten eggs and is
extremely dangerous. Hydrogen sulfide gas very quickly paralyzes the sense of
smell so odor alone does not always give an adequate warning. A concentration
as low as 0.5% will cause immediate death. It is poisonous and explosive. It is
found in many sewage system confined spaces; and
      (3)   Methane (natural gas) is a product of decaying organic material and
has no odor, color, or taste. It can be dangerous because it can displace
oxygen and it is explosive.
(1978 Code, § 8.28.020) (Ord. 92-2, passed - -1992)
§ 92.052 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   Do not enter any confined space without knowing what is in it, what
was in it, and what precautions should be taken;
   (B)   Test the atmosphere with gas detection equipment to determine if there
are any toxic, explosive, or flammable gases and sufficient oxygen to support
life. Do not enter the confined space to make these tests. Lower the unit in
with a rope;
   (C)   Purge the involved space with steam, water, compressed or fresh air,
using exhaust or blowing devices. (Explosion-proof devices are needed for
purging areas with flammable vapor.) Retest the atmosphere after purging;
   (D)    Close and blank out any supply lines, chutes and pipes to the
confined space in which work is being done. Continue to monitor the atmosphere
in a confined space frequently, even if it was “safe” when work began; and
   (E)   Anyone entering a hazardous atmosphere must be backed up by another
worker similarly equipped to assist him or her in any emergency. A third person
should be within sight and hearing of this work and be informed that men or
women are going into the confined space.
(1978 Code, § 8.28.030) (Ord. 92-2, passed - -1992)
§ 92.053 TESTING AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Entry into a confined space should be prohibited until testing of the
atmosphere has been done from the outside prior to each entry. The tests
performed should include those for oxygen content, flammability, and toxic
materials. The gas detector should be calibrated in accordance with the
manufacturer’s guidelines or manuals. Each calibration should be recorded and
available for one year after the last calibration date.
   (B)   Entry into a confined space-for any type of “hot work” should be
prohibited when tests indicate the concentration of flammable gases in the
atmosphere is greater than 10% of the lower flammability unit.
   (C)   The maximum eight-hour time-weighted average of any airborne
contaminant to which an employee may be exposed should at no time exceed the
permissible exposure limits for the contaminant as listed in OSHA Standard 19
C.F.R. part 1910, subpart Z.
   (D)   When the contaminants in the atmosphere cannot be kept within
permissible exposure levels, the employee should wear approved respiratory
protection.
(1978 Code, § 8.28.040) (Ord. 92-2, passed - -1992)
§ 92.054 LABELING AND POSTING.
   Signs should include but not necessarily be limited to the following
information.
 
DANGER
CONFINED SPACE
When a specific work practice is performed or specific safety equipment is
necessary, the following statements that apply should be added, in large
letters, to the warning sign:
 
RESPIRATOR REQUIRED FOR ENTRY
LIFELINE REQUIRED FOR ENTRY
HOT WORK PERMITTED
 
NO HOT WORK
 
(1978 Code, § 8.28.050) (Ord. 92-2, passed - -1992)
§ 92.055 RESCUE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Worker. A harness and lifeline should be worn by the worker where
practical. Where lifelines cannot be used, atmospheric monitoring should be
continuous and equipped with automatic warning alarms.
   (B)   Stand-by person. There should be a trained stand-by person to monitor
the worker in the confined space. Duties of the stand-by person should include
communications with all workers within the confined space and, if necessary,
with the emergency rescue team. Under no circumstances should the stand-by
person enter the confined space unless adequate additional assistance is
present. Over 60% of confined space deaths, involve would-be rescuers.
   (C)   Rescue team. A fully charged, positive pressure, self-contained
breathing apparatus (SCBA) should be immediately available at the entry point
and rescue teams should be equipped with all applicable safety equipment,
including lifelines where practical.
(1978 Code, § 8.28.060) (Ord. 92-2, passed - -1992)
§ 92.056 TRAINING.
   (A)   Management is responsible for training personnel and for the safety of
the entire operation. Personnel who work in the vicinity of confined spaces
should be made aware of the hazards associated with confined spaces. Personnel
who are required to work in a confined space or in support of those working in
a confined space should have additional training in the following areas:
      (1)   Rescue techniques and equipment;
      (2)   Use of applicable respirators. (Management should ensure that the
requirements of 29 C.F.R. § 1910.134 concerning respiratory protection are
met);
      (3)   Lockout procedures;
      (4)   Safety equipment use, e.g., lifelines;
      (5)   Rescue and training drills designed to maintain proficiency should
be given initially to new employees and thereafter at least annually or at
lesser intervals as determined necessary by the judgment of management; and
      (6)   Persons conducting atmospheric tests and monitoring should be
trained in the use of test equipment.
   (B)   (1)   Training should not be considered as complete until the risk
management coordinator, supervisor, or other management-designated official
judges that the employee has attained an acceptable degree of proficiency for
entering and working in confined spaces.
      (2)   The employees’ judgment of the adequacy of this training should be
properly considered.
(1978 Code, § 8.28.070) (Ord. 92-2, passed - -1992)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.070 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to establish regulations for
open burning in order to preserve, protect and promote the public health,
safety, and welfare of the city.
(1978 Code, § 8.32.010) (Ord. 96-9, passed - -1996)
§ 92.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXTINGUISHED. With respect to leaf/brush fires, to put completely out so
that the remains are cool to the touch.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property which is not public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any publicly-owned property including streets, right-of-way
easements, and everything affixed thereto or thereover.
(1978 Code, § 8.32.020)
§ 92.072 CONTROL OF OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning of refuse, any
waste, rubbish, garbage, trash, wood, cardboard, papers, or other combustible
materials within the corporate limits of the city, except as may be allowed in
§§
92.073 and
92.074.
(1978 Code, § 8.32.030) (Ord. 96-9, passed - -1996)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.073 EXCEPTIONS TO RESTRICTIONS ON OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning within the city shall be permitted under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Outdoor burning in connection with the preparation of food;
   (B)   Campfires and fires used solely for recreational purposes or
ceremonial occasions;
   (C)   Fires set for the purposes of training public or private firefighting
personnel;
   (D)   Fires set or required by a public officer for the abatement of
nuisances and which are necessary in carrying out public health functions; and
   (E)   Fires set to dispose of landscape waste upon the premises where it is
produced, subject to the following:
      (1)   When started after 10:00 a.m. and extinguished by sunset on
Wednesdays and Saturdays only;
      (2)   When located on private property after receiving the consent of the
owner or person in charge of the property;
      (3)   When located at least 20 feet from any structure;
      (4)   When continually attended by a competent person until extinguished,
and
      (5)   When the Fire Chief has not prohibited fire due to atmospheric or
other hazardous conditions at the proposed location of such fire.
(1978 Code, § 8.32.040) (Ord. 96-9, passed - -1996; Ord. 2006-5, passed - -
2006)
§ 92.074 CONSTRUCTION.
    This subchapter shall not be construed to prohibit fires in fireplaces,
stoves, heaters, or furnaces safely designed, constructed, installed, and
maintained for said purposes and complying with all applicable laws and
ordinances. This subchapter does not prohibit burning any material in an
incinerator complying with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(1978 Code, § 8.32.050) (Ord. 96-9, passed - -1996)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation or his or her or its agents,
servants or employees violating any of the provisions of §
92.002 shall be deemed guilty of creating a nuisance and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99; provided, that any person or corporation found guilty two times of
violating §
92.002 or any of its provisions shall have his or her or its permit revoked.
(1978 Code, § 8.20.040)
      (2)   Any and all packinghouses and slaughterhouses construct ed and
operating within this city in violation of §
92.002 or any part thereof shall and are declared to be nuisances, and may, in
addition to penalties provided in §
92.002, be immediately abated by the board of health.
(1978 Code, § 8.20.050)
   (C)   Any responsible person, owner, or tenant who has not entered into a
voluntary correction agreement as per §
92.018 shall proceed to abate said nuisance within 24 hours or within such time
as is deemed reasonable by the Chief of Police or his or her designee; however,
the length of time shall not exceed 45 days. Any responsible person, owner or
tenant refusing to comply with the provisions of §
92.018 shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99, and the nuisance may be removed by the city at the expense of the guilty
party, or parties, following notice to the offending party or parties. In the
case of an imminent health hazard, the city may proceed to abate the nuisance
prior to notice and hearing.
(1978 Code, § 8.16.050)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
92.020 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 10.20.060)
   (E)   Any person failing to cut such weeds pursuant to §
92.021 on any premises owned or controlled by him or her within five days after
such notice to cut them shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99 .
(Prior Code, § 8.24.030)
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §§
92.035 through
92.039 shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 8.12.100)
   (G)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §§
92.070 through
92.074 shall, upon conviction, be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 8.32.060)
(Ord. 15, passed - -1917; Ord. 213, passed - -1942; Ord. 282, - -1952; Ord.
401, passed - -1969; Ord. 417, passed - -1971; Ord. 621, passed - -1986; Ord.
96-9, passed - -1996; Ord. 2015-5, passed 7-16-2015)
APPENDIX A: CONFINED SPACES
   CLASS A:
   Immediately dangerous to life. Rescue procedures require the entry of more
than one individually fully equipped with life support equipment. Maintenance
of communication requires an additional stand-by person stationed within the
confined space.
   Parameters:
   Oxygen      16% or less
            25% or greater
   Flammability   20% or greater LFL*
   Toxicity      IDLH**
   CLASS B:
Dangerous but not immediately life threatening. Rescue procedures require the
entry of no more
than one individual fully equipped with life support equipment. Indirect visual
or auditory communication.
   EXHIBIT A
   Parameters:
   Oxygen      16.1 to 19.4%
            21.5 to 25%
   Flammability   10-19% of LFL*
   Toxicity      Greater than contamination level referenced in 29 CFR 1910
subpart Z but less than IDLH**
   CLASS C:
   Potential hazard. Requires no modifications of work procedures. Standard
rescue procedures.
   Direct communication with workers from outside the confined space.
   Parameters:
   Oxygen      19.5 to 21.4%
   Flammability      10% of LFL* or less
   Toxicity      Less than contamination referenced in 29 CFR 1910 subpart 2
____________________________________________________________
*LFL = Lower flammable limit
**IDLH = Immediately dangerous to life or health
CONFINED SPACE ENTRY PROCEDURES
   1.   If manhole on street, erect traffic safety equipment.
   2.   If space contains electrical equipment, shut off and lock out all
equipment.
   3.   Test confined space for O2 deficiency, combustible and toxic elements.
If atmosphere is normal, proceed with items 4, 5, 6.
   If gases or O2 deficiency is found, perform 4, 7, 8.
   _________________________________________________________
   4.    If sediments or organic decomposing materials exist in confined space,
hose or flush out.
   5.    If atmosphere tests to be normal, entry can made if individual wears
safety harness and rope attended by two individuals outside confined space with
self-contained breathing apparatus readily available.
   6.   Individuals outside confined space continuously monitor atmosphere and
provide ventilation.
________________________________________________________________________
   7.   If O2 deficiency or gases are found, ventilate atmosphere with pure air
supply until atmosphere checks to be normal (fifteen to twenty minutes).
   _________________________________________________________________________
   8.   Individual can then enter confined space wearing safety harness, with
ventilation continuing and if attended by two individuals outside space, with
self-contained breathing apparatus readily available, continuously monitoring
confined space atmosphere.
   __________________________________________________________________________
   9.   If confined space contains combustible or toxic gases and/or is O2
deficient and ventilation is not possible, THE SPACE SHOULD NOT BE ENTERED,
except under dire emergency (to save life). Then enter only if using a self-
contained breathing apparatus and exercising extreme caution to avoid ignition
of flammable gases.
CONFINED SPACE ENTRY RECORD CARD
   JOB DESCRIPTION: ____________________________________
   _______________________________________________________
   LOCATION: _____________   DATE: ___________
   EMPLOYEES ASSIGNED: ________________________
   HAVE THE FOLLOWING PRECAUTIONS BEEN TAKEN?
   ( )   YES   ( )   NO   Has necessary traffic safety equipment been set up?
   ( )   YES   ( )   NO   Has all electrical equipment been locked out?
   ( )   YES   ( )   NO   Was area cleaned of sediment or deposition?
   ( )   YES   ( )   NO   Was purging or ventilation required or used?
   ( )   YES   ( )   NO   Were lifelines and harness worn by those entering?
   ( )   YES   ( )   NO   Was rescue equipment tested and operable?
   SAMPLING EQUIPMENT USED:
   TYPE      SERIAL    # DATE BY   CALIBRATED WHOM
   _____      _____      _______   ____________________
   _____      _____      _______   ____________________
   _____      _____      _______   ____________________
   TESTS CONDUCTED    Time      TIME RESULTS    TIME RESULTS
   O2 Deficiency         _____      ______________   _____________
   Combustibility         _____      ______________   _____________
   Toxicity             _____      ______________   _____________
   LIST SAFETY EQUIPMENT USED:
   ________________________________________________________________
   ________________________________________________________________
   ________________________________________________________________
   ________________      _________________
   Foreman               Superintendent
   I HAVE RECEIVED A COPY OF THE CITY CONFINED SPACE ENTRY POLICY AND
PROCEDURE. I HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THE POLICY.
   ________________________   ____________
         (Employee’s Name)         PRINT DATE
         _________________________   _____________
         (Employee’s Signature)      PRINT DATE
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT VENDORS, AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
      
114.   RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
CHAPTER 110: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT VENDORS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
Transient Merchants and Itinerant Vendors
   
110.01   License fee
   
110.02   License application
Solicitors
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Certificate of registration
   
110.17   Applicant fingerprinting required
   
110.18   Application; record keeping
   
110.19   City policy of soliciting
   
110.20   Notice regulating soliciting; described
   
110.21   Solicitors; duty and compliance
   
110.22   Defiance of posted notice deemed nuisance
   
110.23   Soliciting; certain hours and days prohibited
Pedestrian Soliciting Contributions
   
110.35   Solicitation of funds at certain intersections
   
110.36   Soliciting agency restrictions
   
110.37   Solicitors; age and clothing limitations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
§ 110.01 LICENSE FEE.
   A license application fee of $100 is imposed upon any person wishing to
conduct business as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor within the city
under the provisions of the Transient Merchant Act of 1987 (225 ILCS 465/
4 through 465/8). A copy of the Transient Merchant Act of 1987 may be obtained
at the office of the Chief of Police.
(1978 Code, § 5.08.010) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988; Ord. 93-1, passed - -1993)
§ 110.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The license application required under the Transient Merchant Act of 1987,
being 225 ILCS 465/1 et seq., shall be in a form approved by the City Council,
and may be obtained at the office of the Chief of Police of said city.
(1978 Code, § 5.08.020) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988)
SOLICITORS
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as provided in this subchapter, and which
certificate is in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while
engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or
purchases of insurance of any type, kind, or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers, and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing, or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.010) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971)
§ 110.16 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Certificate of registration required. Every person desiring to engage
in solicitation, as defined in §
110.15, from persons in residences within this municipality, is required to
make written application for a certificate of registration as provided in this
subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.020)
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Chief of Police of this municipality and filed with such
Chief.
      (2)   The applicant shall truthfully state in full the following
information requested on the application:
         (a)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also business address if other than residence
address; also Social Security number;
         (b)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if
other than present address;
         (c)   Age of applicant and marital status and, if married, the name of
spouse;
         (d)   Physical description of the applicant;
         (e)   Name and address of the person, firm, or corporation or
association whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of
time of such employment or representation;
         (f)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if
other than the present employer;
         (g)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter
of the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
         (h)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
         (i)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous
application for certificate under this subchapter, if any;
         (j)   Whether a certificate of registration issued to the applicant
under this subchapter has ever been revoked;
         (k)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter, or the ordinance of any other state
municipality regulating soliciting;
         (l)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of
the United States; and
         (m)   Also such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application.
      (3)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.030)
   (C)   Not issued to felons, certain others. No certificate of registration
shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law/of the
United States, within five years of the date of the application; nor to any
person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter, nor to any person whose certificate of registration issued
hereunder has previously been revoked as provided in this subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.060)
   (D)   Issuance. The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application
and all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if
the applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as
required in division (B) above through this division (D) and §§
110.17 and
110.18, and if the issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant
would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this subchapter.
Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the application or the
denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified,
the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.070)
   (E)   Revocation; notice; certificate to become null and void immediately.
      (1)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked
by the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, or has made a false
material statement in the application, or otherwise become disqualified for the
issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this subchapter.
      (2)   Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be
given by the Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate in person or by
certified U.S. mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the
application.
      (3)   Immediately upon the giving of such notice the certificate or
registration shall become null and null and void.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.080)
   (F)   Expiration date. The certificate of registration shall state the
expiration date thereof.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.090)
(Ord. 416, passed - -1971) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 APPLICANT FINGERPRINTING REQUIRED.
   The Chief of Police shall require every applicant to submit to
fingerprinting by the Police Department in connection with the application for
certificate.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.040) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971)
§ 110.18 APPLICATION; RECORD KEEPING.
   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration
issued under the provisions of this subchapter, and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.050) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971)
§ 110.19 CITY POLICY OF SOLICITING.
   It is the policy of the City Council that the occupant or occupants of the
residences in this municipality shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective residences. If
no determination is made as is provided in §
110.20, then in that event, registration is not required.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.100) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971)
§ 110.20 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING; DESCRIBED.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions. Notice of the determination by the
occupant of giving invitation to solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to
solicitors to any residence, shall be given in the manner following.
   (A)   (1)   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches
in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence, indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the
applicable words, as follows: “Only Solicitors Registered in Nashville,
Illinois Invited” or “No Solicitors Invited”.
      (2)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (B)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.110) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971)
§ 110.21 SOLICITORS; DUTY AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any
premises in the municipality upon which a residence is located to first examine
the notice provided for in §
110.20, if any is attached, and to be governed by the statement contained on
the notice.
      (2)   If the notice states “Only Solicitors Registered in Nashville,
Illinois, Invited”, then any solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of
registration as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises; and if the notice states “No Solicitors Invited”, then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.120) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971)
§ 110.22 DEFIANCE OF POSTED NOTICE DEEMED NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create any sound in
any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence, or the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and
engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the notice exhibited at
the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.20.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.130) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 SOLICITING; CERTAIN HOURS AND DAYS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person, whether
registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon any premises and ring the
doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap or knock
upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract
the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as defined in §
110.20, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any week day, or at any time
on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.140) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971; Ord. 565, passed - -1982)
Penalty, see §
110.99
PEDESTRIAN SOLICITING CONTRIBUTIONS
§ 110.35 SOLICITATION OF FUNDS AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   Solicitation of funds at the intersection of Illinois Routes 127 and 15 in
the city by a soliciting agency, as hereinafter defined in this subchapter, is
hereby allowed.
(1978 Code, § 5.14.010) (Ord. 537, passed - -1980)
§ 110.36 SOLICITING AGENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   Any soliciting agency shall be:
   (A)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization as
provided by “An Act to Regulate Solicitation and Collection of Funds for
Charitable Purposes, Providing for Violations Thereof, and Making an
Appropriation Therefor”, approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
   (B)   Engaged in a statewide fund-raising activity; and
   (C)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
(1978 Code, § 5.14.020) (Ord. 537, passed - -1980)
§ 110.37 SOLICITORS; AGE AND CLOTHING LIMITATIONS.
   Any person engaged in the act of soliciting funds shall be 16 years of age
or more, and shall be wearing a high-visibility vest.
(1978 Code, § 5.14.030) (Ord. 537, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
110.15 through
110.23 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as set out in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 5.12.150) (Ord. 416, passed - -1971)
CHAPTER 111: BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Inspection reports required
   
111.04   Proof of liability insurance
   
111.05   License
   
111.06   Taxes
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   An operator-occupied residence providing accommodations for a
charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms for rent, in operation
for more than ten nights in a 12-month period.
      (2)   Breakfast may be provided to the guests only.
   GUEST ROOM. A sleeping room intended to serve no more than two transient
guests per night.
   OPERATOR. The owner of the bed and breakfast establishment, or the owner’s
agent, who is required to reside in the bed and breakfast establishment, or on
contiguous property.
(1978 Code, § 5.28.010) (Ord. 98-9, passed - -1998)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a bed and breakfast establishment without first
having obtained a license from the city.
(1978 Code, § 5.28.020) (Ord. 98-9, passed - -1998)
§ 111.03 INSPECTION REPORTS REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued until the following inspection reports have been
filed with the city:
   (A)   A fire inspection report from the Fire Chief of the city community
fire protection district stating that the bed and breakfast establishment
complies with § 6 of the State Bed and Breakfast Act (50 ILCS 820/6); and
   (B)   A health inspection report from the County Health Department stating
that the bed and breakfast establishment complies with §§ 4 and 5 of the State
Bed and Breakfast Act (50 ILCS 820/4 and 5).
(1978 Code, § 5.28.030) (Ord. 98-9, passed - -1998)
§ 111.04 PROOF OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Prior to obtaining a bed and breakfast establishment license or the renewal
thereof, the owner shall provide the city with proof of commercial general
liability insurance coverage in limits of not less than $500,000 per occurrence
and in the aggregate.
(1978 Code, § 5.28.040) (Ord. 98-9, passed - -1998)
§ 111.05 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Licenses shall be issued on a calendar year basis and shall expire on
December 31 of each year. The annual license fee shall be $20. Licenses issued
at times other than January 1 shall be prorated to December 31.
   (B)   Prior to December 31 of each year, any licensee who wishes to renew
his or her license for the next calendar year shall file reports in accordance
with §
111.03 and pay the renewal fee of $20.
(1978 Code, § 5.28.050) (Ord. 98-9, passed - -1998)
§ 111.06 TAXES.
   Bed and breakfast establishments are subject to all applicable federal,
state and local taxes, including the city hotel accommodations tax in §
32.18.
(1978 Code, § 5.28.060) (Ord. 98-9, passed - -1998)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
revocation upon conviction of the licensee of violating this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 5.28.070) (Ord. 98-9, passed - -1998)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions; statutory authority
   
112.02   Types of licenses; designation and requirements
   
112.03   License; bond; who shall not receive a license; display required; and
renewal
   
112.04   Disorderly houses
   
112.05   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
112.06   Money from license tax to General Fund
   
112.07   Sale of alcoholic liquor without license prohibited
   
112.08   Hours
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local control of alcoholic liquor, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases used in this
chapter are used in the sense given them in the definitions set forth in § 2,
Art. I of the State Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-2.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.010) (Ord. 447, passed - -1974)
§ 112.02 TYPES OF LICENSES; DESIGNATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
    (A)   Kinds of license; designated. Any person, firm, partnership, or
corporation who shall hereafter engage, in whole or in part, in the business
of, or in any manner dealing in any alcoholic liquors, within the city, in any
quantity, to be drunk upon the premises or elsewhere, shall first obtain a
license thereof, from this city, said license to be one of the following kind
or type:
      (1)   An alcoholic liquor license;
      (2)   A seven-day alcoholic liquor license;
      (3)   A club alcoholic liquor license; or
      (4)   A temporary alcoholic liquor permit.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.020)
   (B)   Kinds of license; requirements.
      (1)   An alcoholic liquor license is a license to operate a place open to
the general public for the selling at retail or dispensing of alcoholic
liquors.
      (2)   A seven-day alcoholic liquor license is a license to operate a
place open to the general public for the selling at retail or dispensing of
alcoholic liquors.
      (3)   A club alcoholic liquor license is a license issued to any
corporation which shall have fully complied with the provisions of § 95.24 of
Art. I of the State Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-3.24, and whose
organization shall be deemed by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to have
come within the definition of “club” therein defined.
      (4)   A temporary alcoholic liquor permit is a permit issued for a period
of not to exceed seven days to any organization which has complied with the
terms of this chapter and the terms of the State Liquor Control Act.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.030)
(Ord. 447, passed - -1974; Ord. 467, passed - -1975; Ord. 599A, passed - -1985)
§ 112.03 LICENSE; BOND; WHO SHALL NOT RECEIVE A LICENSE; DISPLAY REQUIRED; AND
RENEWAL.
   (A)   License fee; periods of payment.
      (1)   Such person, firm, or corporation applying for and holding an
alcoholic liquor license shall pay for such license at the rate of $350 per
year, payable in advance; or said license fee may be payable in semiannual
installments in advance at the rate of $350 for such period.
      (2)   Such person, firm, partnership, or corporation applying for and
holding a seven-day alcoholic liquor license shall pay for such license at the
rate of $450 per year, payable in advance; or said license fee may be payable
in semi-annual installments in advance at the rate of $450 for such period.
      (3)   Such corporation applying for and holding a club alcoholic liquor
license, shall pay for the license at the rate of $50 per year, payable in
advance; or payable in semiannual installments in advance at the rate of $50
per year; and provided further, that the holder of such club alcoholic liquor
license or an affiliated or parent corporation or club may obtain a temporary
license for the dispensing of alcoholic liquors for a period not to exceed 24
hours, for any function held in the same building as that in which the club has
its headquarters and bar, upon the payment to the city or its Liquor Control
Commissioner, for such temporary license, the sum of $2 to be paid in advance.
      (4)   Such organization applying for and holding a temporary alcoholic
liquor permit shall pay for the permit at the rate of $10 per day, payable in
advance.
      (5)   All such licenses herein provided for, unless expiring by their
terms at a sooner date, shall expire on April 30 in the fiscal municipal year
in which the license is granted.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.040)
   (B)   License; bond required. Every person applying for a license under the
provisions of this chapter shall, before obtaining such license, enter into a
bond with good and sufficient security, to be approved by the Mayor as Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, in the penal sum of $1,000, and such bond shall be
in substantially the following form.
 
“KNOWN ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
   That we of the County of Washington, and
   State of Illinois, are held and firmly bound unto
   the he people of the State of Illinois, in the penal
   sum of...............Dollars, lawful money of the
   United States, for the payment of which well and
   truly to be made, we, and each of us, do hereby
   bind ourselves, our heirs, executor, and
   administrators, jointly, severally, and firmly.
   “Witness our hands and seals this
   ................ day of.......A.D. 20....
   “The condition of the above obligation is such, that,
   whereas, the above bounden .......... has obtained
   a license to keep a...........in which to sell or deal
   in alcoholic liquors, at.......in the City of Nashville,
   in the County of Washington and State of Illinois
   from the .......... day of.......A.D. 20........
   until the day of ......A.D. 20.
   “NOW, if the said...................................
   shall sell and truly pay all damages to any person or
   persons, which may be inflicted upon them either in
   person or property, or means of support, by reason
   of said..........selling or giving away alcoholic liquors,
   and shall well and truly observe all laws of the State
   of Illinois, and all Ordinances of the City of Nashville
   not in conflict therewith concerning the sale of
   alcoholic liquors, then this obligation to be void,
   otherwise to remain in full force and effect.
      “Taken and approved by me this day of .....
   A.D. 20.
         “Mayor of the City of Nashville,
         and as Local Liquor Control
         Commissioner”.
 
(1978 Code, § 5.04.050)
   (C)   Who shall not receive a license. No person or persons shall receive a
license under the provisions of this chapter unless he, she, or they are
citizens of the United States and of good moral character; nor shall any
person, firm, partnership, or corporation, as aforesaid, obtain a license under
the provisions of this chapter without first stating the location of such place
of business and furnishing satisfactory proof of legal qualifications and
requirements under the laws of the United States and of the state relative
thereto.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.060)
   (D)   License; display required. Every licensee shall cause his or her
license or licenses to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place
on the licensed premises.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.070)
   (E)   License; renewal.
      (1)   The owner or owners of a license to keep a place where such
alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for sale shall have and be given the right
to a renewal at the same or different place of business, in compliance with the
laws of the United States and the state; and upon compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances now in force in this city,
or which may hereafter be passed, governing the licensing of places where such
alcoholic liquor is sold or given away.
      (2)   The privilege of renewal provided by this section shall apply so
long as the license in each case have been kept in force, continuously and
uninterruptedly, in the name of the licensee.
      (3)   No license to keep a place where such liquor is sold or given away
shall be hereafter issued to a firm except to the individual members of the
firm; provided, however, that such person or persons shall duly qualify by
complying with all the laws of the United States and of the state; and the laws
and ordinances in force at the time in this city; and provided further, that
nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to deny or refuse to grant
a new license, to conduct a place where liquor is sold, as provided in this
chapter, to the owner, tenant, or lessee of any premises, on the January 10,
1974, lawfully occupied and used as and for a place where such alcoholic liquor
is sold hereunder.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.080)
(Ord. 447, passed - -1974; Ord. 467, passed - -1975; Ord. 599A, passed - -1985;
Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-2015)
§ 112.04 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   Any person licensed to keep a place where such liquor is sold or given away,
who suffers any disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games, or
riotous or disorderly conduct whatever, in any house, or premises by him or her
kept or occupied for such purposes shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.090) (Ord. 447, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Local Liquor Control Commissioner powers. The Mayor, as Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, shall have the following powers, functions and duties
with respect to liquor licenses:
      (1)   To grant licenses authorized in this chapter and to suspend for not
more than thirty days or revoke for cause all local licenses is sued to persons
for premises within the city;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., or
any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by
the State Liquor Control Commission have been or are being violated, and at
such time to examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen within the city that any of
the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.,
or any rules or regulations adopted thereto have been or are being violated and
to act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the State Liquor Control
Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.; and
      (4)   To receive local license fees and to pay the same forthwith to the
City Treasurer.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.110)
   (B)   License applicant examination.
      (1)   The Local Liquor Control Com missioner shall have the right to
examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license
or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or
suspension has been served in the manner provided in the State Liquor Control
Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.; and to examine or cause to be examined, the
books and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take
proof for his or her information in the performance of his or her duties, and
for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of
this state.
      (2)   For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize
his or her agent to act on his or her behalf.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.110)
(Ord. 447, passed - -1974)
§ 112.06 MONEY FROM LICENSE TAX TO GENERAL FUND.
   All money derived from collections of license taxes herein provided for
shall become a part of and be paid over to the General Fund of the city.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.140) (Ord. 447, passed - -1974)
§ 112.07 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR WITHOUT LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation who shall by himself,
herself, or another, either as principal, clerk, or servant, directly or
indirectly, sell at retail or deal in alcoholic liquors, without first having
obtained a license therefor, or who shall in any other manner violate the
foregoing sections of this chapter, shall for each offense be fined not less
$50, and on conviction under this section shall forfeit any license for the
sale of alcoholic liquors held by the defendant.
   (B)   The court rendering judgment upon such conviction shall in such
judgment declare a forfeiture of such license except as otherwise provided for
under the laws of the state.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.150) (Ord. 447, passed - -1974)
§ 112.08 HOURS.
   (A)   All such places in which alcoholic liquors are sold at retail or
dispensed in the city shall not sell or dispense any alcoholic liquor between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday, and from 1:00
a.m. on Sunday until 5:00 a.m. on Monday, except as follows.
      (1)   A person, firm, or corporation holding a seven-day alcoholic liquor
license may sell alcoholic liquor at retail between the hours of 11:30 a.m. and
11:30 p.m. on Sunday, and may sell alcoholic liquors in the original package
and not for consumption on the premises between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 11:
30 p.m. on Sunday.
      (2)   An organization holding a temporary alcoholic liquor permit may
sell alcoholic liquor at retail between the hours of 11:30 a.m. and 11:30 p.m.
on Sunday.
   (B)   Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation licensed by the city to
sell alcoholic liquors at retail is authorized to sell any alcoholic liquors at
retail on any national, state, county, or municipal election day, including
primary elections, during the hours the polls are open.
   (C)   Any business premises which are used primarily for the sale at retail
or dispensing of alcoholic liquor may not be occupied by anyone except the
owner or his or her employees during the hours alcoholic liquors are prohibited
from being sold or dispensed on said premises, except for 30 minutes
immediately after the time alcoholic liquors are permitted to be sold or
dispensed that day.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.160)
(Ord. 447, passed - -1974; Ord. 467, passed - -1975; Ord. 496, passed - -1976;
Ord. 599A, passed - -1985)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter where no specific
penalty is provided shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.180)
   (B)   Any person who violates §
112.08 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 5.04.170)
(Ord. 447, passed - -1974)
CHAPTER 113: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
113.03   Public nuisance declared
   
113.04   Violations
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. l01-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. l01-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to- time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 12-5-2019)
§ 113.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the City of Nashville. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to
be operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the City of
Nashville of any of the following:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor; or
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 12-5-2019)
§ 113.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the city
in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 12-5-2019)
§ 113.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions
of §
10.99 of the City of Nashville, Illinois, Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 12-5-2019)
CHAPTER 114: RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Requirement of license
   
114.03   Application for a license for a raffle
   
114.04   Application for a license for a poker run
   
114.05   Licensee qualifications
   
114.06   License issuance
   
114.07   Conduct of raffles and poker runs
   
114.08   Records
   
114.09   Limited construction
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words, terms and phrases used herein shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in the "Raffles and Poker Runs Act" except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
§ 114.02 REQUIREMENT OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business, corporation,
organization or other entity to conduct or operate a raffle, or to sell, offer
for sale, convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a raffle at
any location that is both within the borders of the City of Nashville without
having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this chapter and the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business, corporation,
organization or other entity to conduct or operate a poker run without having
first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this chapter and the Raffles and
Poker Runs Act.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE FOR A RAFFLE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, business, corporation, organization or other entity
seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an application therefor with
the City Clerk on the forms provided by the City Clerk.
   (B)   There shall be no filing fee for the application for a license to
conduct or operate a raffle. The City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Mayor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any authorized raffles to fail to comply with
the following regulations:
      (1)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
a licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $1,000,000.
      (2)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $1,000,000.
      (3)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold shall not exceed $500.
      (4)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed 365.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE FOR A POKER RUN.
   (A)   Any person, firm, business, corporation, organization or other entity
seeking to conduct or operate a poker run shall file an application therefor
with the City Clerk on the forms provided by the City Clerk.
   (B)   There shall be no filing fee for the application for a license to
conduct or operate a poker run. The City Clerk shall refer the application to
the Mayor.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
§ 114.05 LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS.
   Raffle licenses and poker run licenses shall be issued only to a bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans'
organizations as defined in the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, and shall not be
issued to any person ineligible to receive a license in accordance with the
Act.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
§ 114.06 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall review all raffle license applications and all poker
run license applications. The Mayor shall, within 30 days from the date of
application, accept or reject a raffle or poker run license application. If an
application is accepted, the Mayor shall forthwith issue a raffle or poker run
license to the applicant.
   (B)   Any license issued under this chapter shall be non-transferable.
   (C)   A license shall be valid for one raffle event or one poker run only,
unless the Mayor specifically authorized a specified number of raffles or poker
runs to be conducted during a specified period not to exceed one year.
   (D)   A raffle license or poker run license may be suspended or revoked for
any misrepresentation on the application, any violation of this chapter or
state law, or when such raffle or poker run, or portion thereof, is conducted
so as to constitute a public nuisance or to disturb the peace, health, safety
or welfare.
   (E)   Prominent display of license.
      (1)   A raffle license shall be prominently displayed at the time and
location of the determination of the winning chances.
      (2)   A poker run license shall be prominently displayed at each location
at which the poker run is conducted or operated.
   (F)   Miscellaneous provision for poker run license. Any poker run license
issued shall cover the entire poker run, including locations other than the key
location. Each license issued shall include the name and address of each
location at which the poker run will be conducted.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
§ 114.07 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS.
   The operation and conduct of raffles and poker runs shall be in accordance
with the provisions of the Raffles and Poker Runs Act in effect at the time of
reference.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
§ 114.08 RECORDS.
   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances or poker runs
shall keep records and make reports in accordance with the provisions of the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act in effect at the time of reference.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
§ 114.09 LIMITED CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity, or device other than
raffles or poker runs as provided for herein.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-17-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
135.   OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST MINORS
      
136.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
Section
   
130.01   False alarm
§ 130.01 FALSE ALARM.
   Whosoever within the city limits knowingly gives or makes any false alarm of
fire shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1987 Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 2, passed - -1917)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
Section
   
131.01   Fighting, offensive conduct
§ 131.01 FIGHTING, OFFENSIVE CONDUCT.
   Whosoever within the city limits is guilty of fighting or striking, unless
in self-defense; or of violent or offensive conduct, calculated to provoke a
breach of the peace; or of assaulting or threatening or challenging to fight
another or others shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and punishable as
set forth in §
10.99.
(1987 Code, § 9.08.010) (Ord. 2, passed - -1917)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to prevent disorderly conduct, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1, 11-
5-3, and 11-5-4 and 720 ILCS 5/26-1
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
Section
   
132.01   Public indecency
   
132.02   House of ill fame; keeping or patronizing; disorderly house
§ 132.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   Whosoever within the city limits is guilty of open lewdness, or any act of
public indecency shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 9.12.010) (Ord. 2, passed - -1917)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to prevent disorderly conduct, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1, 11-
5-3 and 11-5-4 and 720 ILCS 5/26-1
§ 132.02 HOUSE OF ILL FAME; KEEPING OR PATRONIZING; DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   Whoever keeps or maintains a house of ill fame or place for the
practice of prostitution or lewdness, or whoever patronizes the same, or lets
any house, rooms, or other premises for such purposes, or whoever keeps a
common ill-governed, disorderly house, to the encouragement of idleness,
drinking, gambling, fornication, adultery, or other misbehavior, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punishable as set
forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever leases or rents to another any house, room, or premises, in
whole or in part, for any of the uses or purposes punishable under this
section, or who knowingly permits the same to be used or occupied, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction shall be punishable as set
forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 9.16.010) (Ord. 10, passed - -1917)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to prevent prostitution, intoxication, and disorderly
conduct, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1, 11-5-3, and 11-5-4
   Disorderly conduct, see 720 ILCS 5/26-1
   Prostitution, see 720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq.
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
133.01   Intoxication; under the influence in public
   
133.02   Littering
   
133.03   Loitering
   
133.04   Acts constituting vagrancy
   
133.05   Noise control
   
133.06   Prohibition against the possession, sale, use, or consumption of
natural or synthetic intoxicating substances and paraphernalia
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 INTOXICATION; UNDER THE INFLUENCE IN PUBLIC.
   Whosoever is found upon any sidewalk, public street or alley, public school
ground, church ground, courthouse square, or on any vacant lot or in any vacant
building, store, building, saloon, or other public place, intoxicated or under
the influence of any drug or narcotic shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 9.20.010) (Ord. 2, passed - -1917)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to prevent intoxication and disorderly conduct, see 65
ILCS 5/11-5-3 and 11-5-4 and 720 ILCS 5/26-1
§ 133.02 LITTERING.
    No person shall spit, throw banana peelings, nut hulls, or any other waste
matter upon the sidewalks, entryways to any building, or any waiting room of
any depot within the city limits, nor spit on the floor of any store, hall,
justice of the peace office, church, barbershop, or other place or building
frequented by the public.
(1978 Code, § 9.24.010) (Ord. 45, passed - -1917)
§ 133.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, LOITERING means remaining idle in
essentially one location and includes:
      (1)   The concept of colloquial “hanging around”;
      (2)   Standing, sitting, resting, or walking about aimlessly in
essentially one location; or
      (3)   Cruising in a motor vehicle in essentially one location, or
“hanging around” inside or outside of a parked motor vehicle.
(1978 Code, § 9.28.010)
   (B)   Certain types of loitering prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall loiter in a public place in such manner as to:
         (a)   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
         (b)   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to
the comfort and repose of any person;
         (c)   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or
         (d)    Obstruct, molest, or interfere with any person lawfully in any
public place.
      (2)   This division (B) includes the making of unsolicited remarks of an
offensive, disgusting, or insulting nature or which are calculated to annoy or
disturb the person to whom, or in whose hearing, they are made.
(1978 Code, § 9.28.020)
   (C)    Request to leave. Whenever the loitering of any person in any public
place is causing any of the conditions enumerated in division (B) above, any
police officer or the owner of such public place, or his or her authorized
agent, may order that person to leave that place. Any person who refuses to
leave after being ordered to do so shall be guilty of a violation of this
section.
(1978 Code, § 9.28.030)
(Ord. 88-14, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 ACTS CONSTITUTING VAGRANCY.
    All vagrants and vagabonds who remain within the city limits for 12 hours
or more, or who go about begging, or are found in the nighttime in any vacant
building, outhouse, mill, shed, barn, courthouse, or on any public grounds, or
prowling around any bank, mill, public ground or house, depot, or private
house, shall be arrested upon complaint being made, or in view of any peace
officer or night watchman, without complaint having been made, and upon
conviction, shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 9.32.010) (Ord. 5, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
       MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a
motor, such as, but not limited to, motorcycles, trucks, truck-trailers,
campers, go-carts, snowmobiles, or racing vehicles.
      NOISE. Any sound that annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends
to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans; or
amplifies sound or any sound that endangers the health and safety of any human
within an R-1 or R-2 zoned district.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound that endangers or injures the safety or
health of humans or animals, or annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of
normal sensitivities, or endangers or injures personal or real property.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation, and
includes any officer, employee, department, agency, or instrumentality of a
state or any political subdivision of a state.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, or
alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
      PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures thereon which are owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
      REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. A line along the ground surface, and its vertical
extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from that
owned by another person.
(1978 Code, § 9.36.010)
   (B)   Prohibited acts. The following acts, and the causing thereof, are
declared to be in violation of this section, operating, playing, or permitting
the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, tape, or disc
player, musical, or percussion instrument, sound amplifier, loudspeaker, public
address system, or similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies
sound:
      (1)   At anytime and in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance
across a real property boundary; and
      (2)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at 50 feet from
such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public right-of-way,
or public space.
(1978 Code, § 9.36.020)
(Ord. 91-5, passed - -1991; Ord. 96-2, passed - -1996; Ord. 2015-7, passed 9-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 PROHIBITION AGAINST THE POSSESSION, SALE, USE, OR CONSUMPTION OF
NATURAL OR SYNTHETIC INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES AND PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any persons or corporation knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, to sell, lend, rent, lease,
give, exchange, or otherwise distribute to any persons or corporations any
product containing the following chemicals: JWH-018; JWH-200; JWH-073; CP-47;
497, Cannabicyclohexanol; 3.4 Methy lenedioxyprovalerone (MDPV); Methylone,
Meph edrone; 4-Methoxymethcathinone; 4-Fluoromethcathinone; and 3-
Fluoromethcathinone; and marketed as, but not limited to, incense, potpourri,
plant fertilizers, insect repellants, or bath salts.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person or corporation knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonable should know, to display for sale or possess
with intent to distribute any product containing the following chemicals: JWH-
018; JWH-200; JWH-073; CP-47; 497; Cannabicyclohexanol; 3.4 Methy
lenedioxyprovalerone (MDPV); Methylone; Meph edrone; 4-Methoxymethcathinone; 4-
Fluor omethcathinone; and 3-Fluoromethcathinone; and marketed as, but not
limited to, incense, potpourri, plant fertilizers, insect repellants, or bath
salts.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to
use, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body any product
containing the following chemicals: JWH-018; JWH-200; JWH-073; CP-47; 497,
Cannabicyclohexanol; 3.4 Methylenedioxyprovalerone (MDPV), Methylone;
Mephedrone; 4-Methoxymethcathinone; 4-Fluoromethcathinone; and 3-
Fluoromethcathinone, and marketed as, but not limited to, incense, potpourri,
plant fertilizers, insect repellants, or bath salts.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person or corporation knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonable should know, to display for sale or possess
with intent to distribute any item of paraphernalia that is used to ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body any product which contain
the following chemicals: JWH-018; JWH-200; JWH-073; CP-47, 497;
Cannabicyclohexanol; 3.4 Methy lenedioxyprovalerone (MDPV); Methylone;
Mephedrone; 4-Methoxymethcathinone; 4-Fluoromethcathinone; and 3-
Fluoromethcathinone; and marketed as, but not limited to, incense, potpourri,
plant fertilizers, insect repellants, or bath salts;.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess any item of
paraphernalia that is used to ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the
human body any product containing the following chemicals: JWH-018; JWH-200;
JWH-073; CP-47; 497; Cannabicyclohexanol; 3.4 Methylenedioxyprovalerone (MDPV);
Methylone; Mephedrone; 4-Methoxymethcathinone; 4-Fluoromethcathinone; and 3-
Fluoromethcathinone; and marketed as, but not limited to, incense, potpourri,
plant fertilizers, insect repellants, or bath salts.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall become effective from and after
its passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 11-3-2011) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
133.02 shall, upon conviction, thereof be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 9.24.010)
   (C)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
133.03 shall, upon conviction, be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 9.28.040)
   (D)   Any person refusing to comply with the provisions of §
133.04 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(1978 Code, § 9.36.030)
   (E)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
133.05 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $250, nor more than $750.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1917; Ord. 88-14, passed - -1988; Ord. 91-5, passed - -
1991; Ord. 2011-5, passed 11-3-2011)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
134.01   Injury to property
   
134.02   Trespass
   
134.03   Vandalism
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Injuring public or private building; appurtenances to same. Whosoever
wilfully, maliciously, or negligently breaks, defaces, enters, or destroys any
public or private building, or breaks the glass in any such building, or throws
stones or other missiles at any such building, or destroys or injures any
fence, outbuilding, building, pump, wall fixture, or other appurtenances to
such building, or who congregates in or about any unoccupied building, either
in the daytime or nighttime, without the consent of the owner or agent of said
property, shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 .
(1978 Code, § 9.40.010)
   (B)   Injuring public building; property belonging to same; deemed
misdemeanor. Whosoever wilfully, maliciously, or wantonly and without cause
destroys, defaces, mars, or injures any school building, church, courthouse, or
any other public building, or any furniture, apparatus, or other property
belonging to or connected with such school, church, courthouse, or other public
building within the city, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 .
(1978 Code, § 9.40.020)
   (C)   Injuring lighting appliance deemed misdemeanor. Whosoever, within the
city limits, cuts, bores, injures, or defaces any street lamp, pole, or other
appliance used in connection with lighting the city, without the authority of
the City Council, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as set
forth in §
10.99 .
(1978 Code, § 9.40.030)
   (D)   Injuring personal or real property; deemed misdemeanor. Whosoever
within the city limits wantonly and wilfully injures, destroys, or removes from
the premises of the owner any property whatsoever, whether personal or real,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as set forth in §
10.99 .
(1978 Code, § 9.40.040)
(Ord. 2, passed - -1917; Ord. 4, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal damage to property, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1 et seq.
§ 134.02 TRESPASS.
   (A)   Trespass prohibited. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to commit a trespass within this municipality upon either public or
private property.
(1978 Code, § 9.44.010)
   (B)   Specific acts constituting trespass. designated. Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of division (A) above, any of the following
acts by any person, firm, or corporation shall be deemed included among those
that constitute trespass in violation of the provisions of division (A) above,
and appropriate action may be taken under this section at any time, or from
time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this
section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included being as follows:
      (1)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry, or in
violation of any notice, warning, or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of any entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning, or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being re-guested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (4)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft, or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1978 Code, § 9.44.020)
(Ord. 415, passed - -1971) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to prevent trespasses in any public or private place, see
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
   Criminal trespass to land, see 720 ILCS 5/21-3
§ 134.03 VANDALISM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACTS OF VANDALISM. Includes any of the following acts:
         (a)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly damaging or destroying any
property of another person without his or her consent;
         (b)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly by means of fire or
explosive device damaging, debasing, or destroying any property of another
person;
         (c)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly starting a fire on land of
another person without his or her consent;
         (d)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly depositing on the land or
in the building of another person, without his or her consent, any stink bomb,
or any offensive smelling compound and thereby interfering with the use and
occupancy by another, of the land or building; or
         (e)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly and without authority
entering into or obtaining control over any building, house trailer, motor
vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft or any part thereof, of another person without
his or her consent.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. Includes a foster parent, a person appointed guardian of
a person, or given custody of a minor by a Circuit Court of the state, but does
not include a person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor, or
appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor under the State Juvenile Court
Act, being 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
      MINOR. Includes a person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 18
years of age.
      PARENT. Includes the lawful father and mother of a minor child, whether
by birth or adoption.
      PROPERTY. Includes any real estate including improvements thereon, and
tangible personalty.
(1978 Code, § 9.48.010)
   (B)   Failure of parent or guardian to exercise parental responsibility. The
parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or
legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary,
to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and the minor shall
be deemed to have committed the acts described in §
134.03(A) with the knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian, in
violation of this section, upon the occurrence of the events described
divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) below.
      (1)   An unemancipated minor residing with the parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law, or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law,
or statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property.
      (2)   The parent or guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
City Police Department following said adjudication or nonjudicial sanction.
      (3)   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in division (B)(2) above, the minor is either adjudicated to be in
violation of any ordinance, law, or statute as described in division (B)(1)
above, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law
or statute as described in division (B)(1) above.
(1978 Code, § 9.48.020)
(Ord. 526, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
134.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 9.44.030)
   (C)   Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of §
134.03 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each offense.
(1978 Code, § 9.48.030)
(Ord. 415, passed - -1971; Ord. 526, passed - -1978)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST MINORS
Section
   
135.01   Curfew
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, highway or
other public place or way at the following times:
      (1)   For persons less than 13 years of age, between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. the following day on any day of the week; or
      (2)   For persons at least 13 years of age, but not yet 17 years of age:
         (a)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day; or
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child is
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Employment which the laws of this state authorizes a person less
than 17 years of age to perform;
         (b)   A school recreational activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article I, Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Constitution of the state, or both; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non- profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults.
   (C)   A citation for violation of division (A) of this section may be issued
by a police officer only if he or she reasonably believes that a violation has
occurred and one of the defenses enumerated in division (B).
   (D)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other
person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate
provisions of division (A) of this section. It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that a person has violated this section if someone under 17 years
of age of whom such person has custody or control is present upon any public
assembly, building, business, street or highway, or other public place or
public way in violation of division (A) of this section, and none of the
defenses enumerated in division (B) apply.
(Ord. 348, passed - -1963; Ord. 623, passed - -1986; Ord. 2015-2, passed 5-21-
2015) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to impose a curfew on minors, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
   State curfew, see 720 ILCS 555/1
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of §
135.01 shall be fined $50 for the first violation in any 12-month period; $75
for a second violation in any 12-month period; and $200 for a third or
subsequent violation in any 12-month period.
(Ord. 348, passed - -1963; Ord. 2015-2, passed 5-21- 2015)
CHAPTER 136: WEAPONS
Section
   
136.01   Firearms and firecrackers
 
   
136.99   Penalty
§ 136.01 FIREARMS AND FIRECRACKERS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to fire, shoot, or discharge any
pistol, shotgun, rifle, or other firearm, firecracker, torpedo, slingshot, or
any contrivance of the kind, upon, into, or across any street, alley, or public
place, or upon, into, or across any premises owned or occupied by another,
except by a written permit of the Mayor, or his or her public proclamation,
proclaiming this chapter suspended upon a certain occasion or national holiday.
(1978 Code, § 9.64.010) (Ord. 3, passed - -1917)
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 9.64.020) (Ord. 3, passed - -1917)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
154.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Building Code adopted
   
150.03   Creation of the Office of the Building Official
   
150.04   Building Official
   
150.05   Fire limits established
Plumbing Code
   
150.20   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.21   Subchapter title; enforcement officers
   
150.22   Applicability; scope
   
150.23   Inspections and enforcement authority
Electrical Code
   
150.35   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.36   Subchapter title; enforcement officers
   
150.37   Applicability; scope
   
150.38   Inspections and enforcement authority
Housing Regulations
   
150.50   Definitions
   
150.51   Inspection; Health Officer authority; right of entry
   
150.52   Violations deemed pursuant to Health Officer; notice; contents
   
150.53   Hearing following notice; revocation of permit
   
150.54   Record keeping of hearing proceedings
   
150.55   Hearings; appeals
   
150.56   Emergency procedures
   
150.57   Rules and regulations; Health Officer authority
   
150.58   Basic equipment and facilities requirement
   
150.59   Light, ventilation, and heating requirements
   
150.60   Safe and sanitary maintenance requirements
   
150.61   Space, use, and location requirements
   
150.62   Owners’ and occupants’ responsibilities and requirements
   
150.63   Rooming houses and hotels
   
150.64   Criteria for condemnation; placarding required
   
150.65   Condemned dwelling unit
   
150.66   Higher standard prevails
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to regulate building construction, see 65 ILCS 5/11-30-4
   Authorizing cities to regulate plumbing, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-5
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATE COUNSEL. The attorney for the city.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Nashville, Washington County, Illinois.
(1978 Code, § 15.04.010) (Ord. 349, passed - -1964)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   There is adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use, and occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings and structures,
including permits and penalties, that certain building code known as the
National Board of Fire Underwriters Building Code, being particularly the 1955
edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter in this subchapter deleted, modified, or amended, of which not less
than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the City Clerk,
and the same are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, and from the date on which the ordinance codified in this subchapter
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
construction of all buildings and other structures within the corporate limits
of the city.
(1978 Code, § 15.04.020) (Ord. 349, passed - -1964)
§ 150.03 CREATION OF THE OFFICE OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Office of Building Official is created, and the executive official
in charge shall be known as the Building Official.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Official shall be appointed by the Mayor by and
with the advice of the City Council. His or her appointment shall continue
during good behavior and satisfactory service.
      (2)   He or she shall not be removed from office except for cause and
after full opportunity has been given to him or her to be heard on specific
charges.
   (C)   During temporary absence or disability of the Building Official, the
appointing authority shall designate an acting Building Official.
(1978 Code, § 15.04.030) (Ord. 349, passed - -1964)
§ 150.04 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Building Official to enforce all
laws relating to the construction, alteration, removal, and demolition of
buildings and structures.
(1978 Code, § 15.04.040)
   (B)   Right to enter premises authorized. The Building Official, in the
discharge of his or her official duties and upon proper identification, shall
have authority to enter any building, structure, or premises at any reasonable
hour.
(1978 Code, § 15.04.050)
(Ord. 349, passed - -1964)
§ 150.05 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The fire limits of the city are established as follows: All of the area
encompassed within the boundaries of Blocks Three, Four, Five and Six of the
Original Town, now the city of Nashville, as originally platted and recorded in
the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
(1978 Code, § 15.04.060) (Ord. 349, passed - -1964)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.20 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   There is adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the installation of plumbing in the city, including permits and
penalties, that certain plumbing code known as the National Plumbing Code,
being particularly the 1955 edition thereof, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter in this subchapter deleted, modified, or amended, of which not
less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the City
Clerk, and the same are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein and from the date on which the ordinance codified in this
subchapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in
the installations, repairs, and alterations of plumbing within the corporate
limits of the city.
(1978 Code, § 15.12.010) (Ord. 350, passed - -1964)
§ 150.21 SUBCHAPTER TITLE; ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “National Plumbing Code”, may be
so cited, and will be referred to in this subchapter as “this code”.
   (B)   (1)   The administration and enforcement of this subchapter shall be
the duty of the Mayor, who is authorized to take such action as may be
reasonably necessary to enforce the purpose of this code.
      (2)   Such persons may be appointed or authorized as assistants or agents
as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this code.
      (3)   Appointments of assistants made by the Mayor shall be made with the
advice and consent of the City Council, in the same manner in which other
appointments of city officers are now made.
(1978 Code, § 15.12.020) (Ord. 350, passed - -1964)
§ 150.22 APPLICABILITY; SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to and govern plumbing as defined in
this code, including the practice and materials and fixtures used in the
installation, maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping, fixtures,
appliances, and appurtenances in connection with any of the following:
   (A)   Sanitary drainage or storm drainage facilities;
   (B)   The venting system;
   (C)   The public or private water-supply system, within or adjacent to any
building or other structure or conveyance; and
   (D)   The stormwater or sewage system of any premises to their connection
with any point of public disposal or other terminal.
(1978 Code, § 15.12.030) (Ord. 350, passed - -1964)
§ 150.23 INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor or any assistant or agent hereafter
appointed by him or her to enforce the provisions of this code and to make the
inspections and tests required under the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The Mayor, assistant, or agent from time to time appointed by the
Mayor, shall, after proper identification, have the right to enter any premises
for the purpose of inspecting the plumbing system at such times as may be
reasonably necessary to protect the public health.
(1978 Code, § 15.12.040) (Ord. 350, passed - -1964)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.35 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   There is adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the installation of electric wiring and apparatus in the city,
including permits and penalties, that certain electrical code known as the
National Electrical Code, being particularly the 1962 edition thereof, save and
except such portions as are hereinafter in this subchapter deleted, modified,
or amended, of which not less than three copies have been and now are filed in
the office of the City Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which the
ordinance codified in this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof
shall be controlling in the installations, repairs, and alterations of electric
wiring and apparatus within the corporate limits of the city.
(1978 Code, § 15.16.010) (Ord. 351, passed - -1964)
§ 150.36 SUBCHAPTER TITLE; ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “National Electrical Code” and
may be so cited, and the National Electric Code will be referred to in this
subchapter as “this code”.
   (B)   The administration and enforcement of this subchapter shall be the
duty of the Mayor of the city, who is authorized to take such action as may be
reasonably necessary to enforce the purpose of this code.
   (C)   Appointments of assistants may be made by the Mayor and shall be made
with the advice and consent of the City Council, in the same manner in which
other appointments of city officers and employees are now made.
(1978 Code, § 15.16.020) (Ord. 351, passed - -1964)
§ 150.37 APPLICABILITY; SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to and govern electric wiring and
apparatus as defined in this code, and shall include original installation,
repair, and alteration.
(1978 Code, § 15.16.030) (Ord. 351, passed - -1964)
§ 150.38 INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor or any assistants or agents
appointed as heretofore in the subchapter set forth, to enforce the provisions
of this code and to make the inspections and tests required thereunder.
   (B)   The Mayor or any assistants or agents from time to time appointed,
shall, after proper identification, have the right to enter any premises for
the purpose of inspecting any electrical wiring and apparatus at such times as
may be reasonably necessary to protect the public safety and health.
(1978 Code, § 15.16.040) (Ord. 351, passed - -1964)
HOUSING REGULATIONS
§ 150.50 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
      DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials or their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, trapping; or by
any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the Health
Officer.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, or communicating corridors, closets,
and storage spaces.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the city or
his or her authorized representative.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in, or having possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS. The temperature 15°F above the lowest
recorded temperature for the previous ten-year period.
      OWNER. Any person who, along, or jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such
person thus representing the actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
      PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association, or
partnership.
      PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and
equipment: gas pipes; gas- burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes-washing machines; catch basins;
drains vents; and any other similar supplied fixtures together with all
connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or
father, or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purpose.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non combustible waste materials, except garbage;
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coke, coal,
and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, and trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, cockery, and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, or other structure, used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (B)   Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING
UNIT, and/or PREMISES are used in this subchapter, they shall be construed as
though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.010) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.51 INSPECTION; HEALTH OFFICER AUTHORITY; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Health Officer is authorized and directed to make inspections to
determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and
premises located within this city, in order that he or she may perform his or
her duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of dwellings
and of the general public.
   (B)   For the purpose of making such inspections, the Health Officer is
authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units, and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling unit, and rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof,
shall give the Health Officer free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, or
rooming unit and premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of such
inspection, examination, and survey.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling
or dwelling unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter or with any lawful rule or regulation adopted
or any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.020) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.52 VIOLATIONS DEEMED PURSUANT TO HEALTH OFFICER; NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Officer determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this
subchapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he or she
shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons
responsible therefor, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reason why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
and
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent, or the occupant, as
the case may be or require; provided that, such notice shall be deemed to be
properly served upon owner or agent, or upon such occupant, if a copy thereof
is served upon him or her personally, or if a copy thereof is sent by
registered mail to his or her last known address; or if a copy thereof is
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by the notice;
or if he or she is served with such notice by any other method authorized or
required under the law of this state.
   (C)   Such notice may contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken,
will effect compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and with rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.030) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.53 HEARING FOLLOWING NOTICE; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Any persons affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this subchapter, or of any
rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter before the Health Officer; provided that, such person
shall file in the office of the Health Officer a written petition requesting
such hearing within ten days after the day the notice was served.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such petition, the Health Officer shall set a time
and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice
thereof. At such hearing the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be
heard and to show why such notice should be modified or withdrawn.
      (3)   The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten days after the
day on which the petition was filed; provided, that upon application of the
petitioner the Health Officer may postpone the date of the hearing for a
reasonable time beyond such ten-day period if, in this judgement, the
petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for such postponement.
   (B)   (1)   After such hearing, the Health Officer shall sustain, modify, or
withdraw the notice, depending upon his or her finding as to whether the
provisions of this subchapter and of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto have been complied with.
      (2)   If the Health Officer sustains or modifies such notice, it shall be
deemed to be an order. Any notice served pursuant to §
150.52 shall automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing
is not filed in the office of the Health Officer within ten days after such
notice is served. After a hearing, in the case of any notice suspending any
permit required by this subchapter or by any rule or regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, when such notice has been sustained by the Health Officer,
the permit shall be deemed to have been revoked. Any such permit which has been
suspended by a notice shall be deemed to be automatically revoked if a petition
for hearing is not filed in the office of the Health Officer within ten days
after such notice is served.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.040) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.54 RECORD KEEPING OF HEARING PROCEEDINGS.
   The proceedings at such hearing, including the findings and decision of the
Health Officer, shall be summarized, reduced to writing, and entered as a
matter of public record in the office of the Health Officer. Such record shall
also include a copy of every notice or order issued in connection with the
matter.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.050) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.55 HEARINGS; APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Health Officer at such hearing
may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
by the laws of this state.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.060) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.56 EMERGENCY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Officer finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she may, without
notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency
and requiring that such action be taken as he or she deems necessary to meet
the emergency.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of the subchapter, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Health Officer shall be
afforded a hearing as soon as possible. After such hearing, depending upon his
or her findings as to whether the provisions of this subchapter and the rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the Health
Officer shall continue such order in effect, or modify it, or revoke it.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.070) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.57 RULES AND REGULATIONS; HEALTH OFFICER AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Health Officer is authorized to make and, after a public hearing
has been held in accordance with the laws governing the conduct of public
hearings by the Health Officer of this city, to adopt such written rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the proper enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter; provided that, such rules and regulations shall not be in
conflict with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall file a certified copy of all rules and
regulations which he or she may adopt with the City Clerk. Such rules and
regulations shall have the same force and effect as the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   The penalty for violation of such rules and regulations shall be the
same as the penalty for violation of the provisions of this subchapter, as
provided in §
150.99(D).
(1978 Code, § 15.20.080) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.58 BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the
Health Officer.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit, except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below, shall contain a room which affords privacy to a person within said room
and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a lavatory basin in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved
by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit, except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below, shall contain, within a room which affords privacy to a person within
said room, a bathtub or shower in good working condition and properly connected
to a water and sewer system approved by the Health Officer.
   (D)   The occupants of not more than two dwelling units may share a single
flush water closet, a single lavatory basin, and a single bathtub or shower if:
      (1)   Neither of the two dwelling units contains more than two rooms;
provided that, for the purposes of this division (D), a kitchenette or an
efficiency kitchen with not more than 60 square feet of floor area shall not be
counted as a room;
      (2)   The habitable area of each of such dwelling units shall equal not
more than 250 square feet of floor area; and
      (3)   Such water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower shall be
in good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system
approved by the Health Officer.
   (E)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower required
under the provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above shall be properly
connected with both hot and cold water lines.
   (F)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities, the type and location of which are approved by the Health Officer.
   (G)   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers, the type and location of which are approved by the
Health Officer.
   (H)   (1)   Every dwelling shall have supplied waterheating facilities which
are properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, are
properly connected with the hot-water lines required under the provisions of
division (E) above, and are capable of heating water to such a temperature as
to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen
sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, or shower at a temperature of not less than
120°F.
      (2)   Such supplied waterheating facilities shall be capable of meeting
the requirements of this division (H) when the dwelling or dwelling unit
heating facilities required under the provisions of §
150.60(E) are not in operation.
   (I)   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of this
state and this city.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.090) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.59 LIGHT, VENTILATION, AND HEATING REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured
between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of such
room.
      (2)   Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any
such room and such light-obstructing structures are located less than three
feet from the window and extend to a level above that
of the ceiling of the room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly
to the outdoors and shall not be included as contributing to the required
minimum total window area.
      (3)   Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the
top of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall be equal at
least 15% of the total floor area of such room.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal
to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type window
size, as required in division (A) above, except where there is supplied some
other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in divisions
(A) and (B) above, except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a
ventilation system which is kept in continuous operation and approved by the
Health Officer.
   (D)   (1)   Where there is electric service available from power lines which
are not more than 300 feet away from a dwelling, every habitable room of such
dwelling shall contain at least two separate floor-type or wall-type electric
convenience outlets, or one such convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling-
type electric light fixture; and every water closet compartment, bathroom,
laundry room, furnace room, and public hall shall contain at least one supplied
ceiling-type or wall-type electric light fixture.
       (2)   Every such outlet and fixture shall be properly installed, shall
be maintained in good and safe working condition, and shall be connected to the
source of electric power in a safe manner.
   (E)   Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable
of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and water
closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of
at least 70°F, at a distance three feet above floor level, under ordinary
minimum winter conditions.
   (F)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling containing
five or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every
public hall and stairway in structures devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and
containing not more than four dwelling units may be supplied with conveniently
located light switches, controlling an adequate lighting system which may be
turned on when needed, instead of full-time lighting.
   (G)   During that portion of each year when the Health Officer deems it
necessary for protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other insects, every
door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space shall have supplied
screens and a self-closing device; and every window or other device with
openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation, shall
likewise be supplied with screen; provided, that such screen shall not be
required during such period in rooms deemed by the Health Officer to be located
high enough in the upper stories of buildings as to be free from such insects,
and in rooms located in areas of the city which are deemed by the Health
Officer to have so few such insects as to render screens unnecessary.
   (H)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents, shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as will
effectively prevent their entrance.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.100) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.60 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight, and rodent-proof; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be kept in good repair.
   (B)   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water- tight, and rodent-proof; and shall be kept in sound
working condition and good repair.
   (C)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
   (D)   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks, and obstructions.
   (E)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (F)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is
required under this subchapter shall be so constructed or installed that it
will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   (G)   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility
equipment, or utility which is required under this subchapter to be removed
from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or occupied
by him or her, except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while
actual repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies
when discontinuance of service is approved by the Health Officer.
   (H)   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant dwelling
unit unless it is clean, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.110) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.61 SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with
the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor
space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square feet of
floor space for every additional occupant thereof, the floor space to be
calculated on the basis of total habitable room area.
   (B)   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor space for each occupant
thereof.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms
shall have such room arrangement that access to a bathroom or water closet
compartment intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be
had only by going through another sleeping room; nor shall room arrangements be
such that access to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another
sleeping room or a bathroom or water closet compartment.
   (D)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have
a ceiling height of at least seven feet and the floor area of that part of any
room where the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be considered as
part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of the room for the
purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
   (E)   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
   (F)   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit
unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness;
      (2)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area sizes as required in §
150.59(A);
      (3)   Such required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjoining such window area; and
      (4)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under §
150.59(B), except where there is supplied some other device affording adequate
ventilation and approved by the Health Officer.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.120) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.62 OWNERS’ AND OCCUPANTS’ RESPONSIBILITIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling or dwelling unit and premises
thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the rubbish
containers required by §
150.58(F).
   (D)   (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of
all his or her garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for
rodents, in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal
facilities or garbage storage containers required by §
150.58(G).
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply such
facilities or containers for all dwelling units in a dwelling containing more
than four dwelling units and for all dwelling units located on premises where
more than four dwelling units share the same premises. In all other cases, it
shall be the responsibility of the occupant to furnish such facilities or
containers.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this subchapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, except where the owner has agreed to supply such
service.
   (F)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this division (F), whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat-
proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the
dwelling units in any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be
the responsibility of the owner.
   (G)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.130) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.63 ROOMING HOUSES AND HOTELS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or let to
another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in
compliance with the provisions of every section of this subchapter except the
provisions of §
150.58 and §
150.62.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a rooming house unless he or she holds a
valid rooming house permit issued by the Health Officer in the name of the
operator and for the specific dwelling or dwelling unit. The operator shall
apply to the Health Officer for such permit, which shall be issued by the
Health Officer upon compliance by the operator with the applicable provisions
of this subchapter and of any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
This permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within the rooming house
at all times. No such permit shall be transferable.
      (2)   Every person holding such a permit shall give notice in writing to
the Health Officer within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given away,
or otherwise disposed of ownership of, interest in, or control of any rooming
house. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding
to the ownership or control of such rooming house.
      (3)   Every rooming house permit shall expire at the end of one year
following its date of issuance, unless sooner suspended or revoked as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Any person whose application for a permit to operate a rooming house
has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before
the Health Officer, under the procedure provided by §§
150.52 through
150.56.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever upon inspection of any rooming house the Health Officer
finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any
provision of this subchapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, the Health Officer shall give notice in writing to the operator of
such rooming house that unless such conditions or practices are corrected
within a reasonable period, to be determined by the Health Officer, the
operator’s rooming house permit will be suspended.
      (2)   At the end of such period the Health Officer shall reinspect such
rooming house, and if he or she finds that such conditions or practices have
not been corrected, he or she shall give notice in writing to the operator that
the latter’s permit has been suspended. Upon receipt of notice of suspension,
such operator shall immediately cease operation of such rooming house, and no
person shall occupy for sleeping or living purposes any rooming unit therein.
   (E)   Any person whose permit to operate a rooming house has been suspended,
or who has received notice from the Health Officer that his or her permit is to
be suspended unless existing conditions or practices at his or her rooming
house are corrected, he or she may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Health Officer, under the procedure provided by §§
150.52 through
150.56; provided that, if no petition for such hearing is filed within ten days
following the day on which such permit was suspended, such permit shall be
deemed to have been automatically revoked.
   (F)   (1)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Health
Officer and in good condition, shall be supplied for each eight persons or
fraction thereof residing within a rooming house, including members of the
operator’s family wherever they share the use of the said facilities; provided
that, in a rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush urinals may
be substituted for not more than one-half the required number of water closets.
      (2)   All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as to
be reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons
sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be
supplied with hot water at all times. No such facilities shall be located in a
basement except by written approval of the Health Officer.
   (G)   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen
and towels therein at least once each week, and prior to the letting of any
room to any occupant. The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of
all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (H)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain
at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor
space for each occupant thereof.
   (I)   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of this
state and the city.
   (J)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings, and for maintenance of
a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house. He or she shall
be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises
where the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (K)   Every provision of this subchapter which applies to rooming houses
shall also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any such provision may be
found in conflict with the laws of this state or with the lawful regulations of
any state board or agency.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.140) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.64 CRITERIA FOR CONDEMNATION; PLACARDING REQUIRED.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which is found to have any of the following
defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be so
designated and placarded by the Health Officer:
   (A)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, insanitary, unsafe, or
vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of the
occupants or of the public;
   (B)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public; or
   (C)   One which because of its general condition or location is insanitary
or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or of the
public.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.150) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.65 CONDEMNED DWELLING UNIT.
    (A)   Vacation required; rehabilitation and removal of placard.
      (1)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human
habitation, and so designated and placarded by the Health Officer, shall be
vacated within a reasonable time as ordered by the Health Officer.
      (2)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded
as unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from, and such placard is removed by, the Health
Officer. The Health Officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.160)
   (B)   Defacing or removal placard prohibited; exception. No person shall
deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or dwelling unit which has been
condemned as unfit for human habitation and placarded as such, except as
provided in division (A)(2) above.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.170)
   (C)   Hearing authorized. Any person affected by any notice or order
relating to the condemning and placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as
unfit for human habitation shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Health Officer, under the procedure set forth in §§
150.52 through
150.56.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.180)
(Ord. 352, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.66 HIGHER STANDARD PREVAILS.
   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire safety, or health ordinance or
code of the city existing on the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this subchapter, the provision which established the higher standard for the
promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.200) (Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
150.20 through
150.23 shall be punishable as set out in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 15.12.050)
   (C)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
150.35 through
150.38 shall be punishable as set out in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 15.16.050)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
150.50 through
150.66 or any provision of any rule or regulation adopted by the Health Officer
pursuant to authority granted by §§
150.50 through
150.66, shall upon conviction be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 15.20.190)
(Ord. 350, passed - - 1964; Ord. 351, passed - -1964; Ord. 352, passed - -1964)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Applicability of regulations; territorial limits
   
151.002   Compliance required; preliminary plat
   
151.003   Final plat approval perquisite to recordation; other official acts
   
151.004   Definitions
Procedure
   
151.015   Subdivision development procedure authorized
   
151.016   Pre-application conference
   
151.017   Preliminary plat application submittal
   
151.018   Preliminary plat
   
151.019   Final plat
   
151.020   Performance and maintenance required
   
151.021   Fees with application for plat acceptance
Preliminary Plats
   
151.035   Filing requirements; exceptions
   
151.036   Submitted to Planning Commission for acceptance
   
151.037   Vicinity sketch required
   
151.038   Horizontal scale
   
151.039   Contents
   
151.040   Acceptance or nonacceptance by Planning Commission
   
151.041   Acceptance of nonacceptance by governing body
   
151.042   Design construction
Final Plats
   
151.055   Contents
   
151.056   Review by Municipal Engineer and Zoning Administrator
   
151.057   Acceptance or nonacceptance by governing body
Design Standards Generally
   
151.070   Compliance required
   
151.071   Conformity with official map; open spaces
   
151.072   Street and block layout
   
151.073   Minimum right-of-way widths of streets, alleys, and easements for
utilities
   
151.074   Minimum pavement widths
   
151.075   Street grades, curves, sight distances, and sidewalk ramps
   
151.076   Intersections
   
151.077   Lots
Improvements
   
151.090   Compliance required
   
151.091   Construction contract or bond required
   
151.092   Streets and sidewalks
   
151.093   Public utilities
   
151.094   Stormwater drainage facilities
   
151.095   Street name signs
   
151.096   Grading, landscaping, and erosion and sedimentation control
   
151.097   Record construction drawings
   
151.098   Maintenance of improvements
Minimum Design Standards
   
151.110   General requirements
   
151.111   Water main improvements
   
151.112   Sanitary sewer service
   
151.113   Street improvements
   
151.114   Storm drainage improvements
   
151.115   Grading and landscaping improvements
   
151.116   Miscellaneous utility improvements
   
151.117   Miscellaneous improvements
  Vacation, Variances, and Amendments
   
151.130   Vacation of plats
   
151.131   Variances
   
151.132   Amendments
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Subdivision Certificates
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to provide by ordinance for approval of any map, plat, or
subdivision, see 65 ILCS 5/11-15-1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS; TERRITORIAL LIMITS.
   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land contained
in this chapter apply to that land located within the corporate limits of the
city and to land as indicated on the official map contained in the
comprehensive plan located in its comprehensive plan map, as amended and which
is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(1978 Code, § 16.04.010) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.002 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Within the territorial limits of this chapter, no person, firm, or
corporation shall change, resubdivide, or rearrange the boundary or division
line of any lot or parcel or land, or divide the same into building lots for
the purpose of sale, or for lease for a period of more than five years, without
meeting the requirement of this chapter.
   (B)   Nor shall any such person, firm, or corporation begin with any
construction work in a proposed subdivision or land development, including
grading, without complying with the provisions of this chapter and before
obtaining the acceptance of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision or
development as provided herein.
   (C)   Prior to seeking such acceptance, the subdivider/developer or its
state registered land surveyor shall submit the plat in sketch form to the
Planning Commission, to ascertain the location of proposed highways, primary or
secondary thoroughfares, parkways, parks, playgrounds, and other planned
developments as indicated on the official map.
(1978 Code, § 16.04.020) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.003 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL PERQUISITE TO RECORDATION; OTHER OFFICIAL ACTS.
   Unless accepted as a final plat, no subdivision shall be entitled to record
in the County Recorder’s office nor have any validity; the Zoning Administrator
shall not issue building or repair permits for any structure on a lot in any
subdivision or development; and the municipality shall not accept nor permit
any public improvements or services in that proposed subdivision or
development.
(1978 Code, § 16.04.030) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the boundary or lot lines of the
property proposed for subdivision or land development, including any areas to
be dedicated or reserved for street and alley rights- of-way and public use.
   AREA, NET. The area within the boundary or lot lines of the property
proposed for subdivision or land development, determined by subtracting from
the gross area the areas to be dedicated or reserved for street and alley
rights-of-way and for public use.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street intended to serve and to provide access to
neighborhoods or sub- neighborhoods.
   COMMUNITY PLAN. The official plan of the municipality.
   DEVELOPMENT. This term shall be used interchangeably with the term
SUBDIVISION for purposes of this chapter. DEVELOPMENT. Shall be used
interchangeably with the term SUBDIVISION.
   GOVERNING BODY OF MUNICIPALITY. The Mayor and City Council of the City of
Nashville.
   LOCAL STREET. Any street not a highway, primary or secondary thoroughfare,
or collector street, and intended to serve and provide access exclusively to
the properties abutting thereon.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership on building
development, whether immediate or future. All lots shall have frontage on a
public street.
   MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS. The document containing the minimum design
standards of the municipality, which shall be applied to all new subdivisions
and developments under the municipality’s jurisdiction.
   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER. The Engineer of the municipality.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Nashville, Washington County, Illinois.
   OFFICIAL MAP. An adopted map showing the present and future location of
public facilities within the city’s regulatory authority.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Nashville City Planning Commission.
   PRIMARY AND SECONDARY THOROUGHFARES. The highways, a primary and secondary
thoroughfare designated as such on the official map.
   SHALL. Sets forth a mandatory requirement.
   SHOULD. Sets forth a recommended, but not a mandatory requirement.
   STOP ORDER. An order used by the Zoning Administrator to halt work in
progress that is in violation of this chapter.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, LLC (limited liability
corporation), association, corporation, estate, or other group or combination
acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide land in a manner that
constitutes a subdivision as defined in this section. The term DEVELOPER shall
be used interchangeably with the term SUBDIVIDER for purposes of this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, plots, sites, or other divisions of land, or the consolidation of
parcels, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, or transfer of ownership
of building development; provided, however, that this definition of a
SUBDIVISION shall not include bona fide divisions or consolidations of land for
agricultural purposes in parcels of more than ten acres not involving any new
street or easement of access.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator for the municipality.
(1978 Code, § 16.08.010) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
PROCEDURE
§ 151.015 SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE AUTHORIZED.
   In planning and developing a subdivision or development, the general
principles and requirements set forth in this subchapter shall be observed and
in every case the procedure set out in this subchapter shall be pursued.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.010) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.016 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   A pre-application conference shall be held with the Planning Commission. At
that time, a rough sketch shall be presented for review. This step is required
before submitting the preliminary plat.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.020) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.017 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION SUBMITTAL.
   The subdivider, after submitting the plat in sketch form to the Planning
Commission, shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, a preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision along with construction plans for required improvements to
be installed in accord with the provisions of this subchapter and the minimum
design standards, and file with the Planning Commission an application in
writing seeking acceptance of the plat, accompanied by six black line or blue
line prints of construction plans and specifications for required improvements,
at least two weeks prior to a scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.030) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.018 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Checking and acceptance of construction plans required. The Planning
Commission shall forward two copies of the preliminary plat to the Municipal
Engineer and the County Zoning Administrator and County Engineer, if
applicable, for checking of matters within their jurisdiction and acceptance of
the construction plans for required proposed improvements proposed to be
installed.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.040)
   (B)    Notice of acceptance.
      (1)   The Planning Commission, upon receipt of recommendations from the
Municipal Engineer and the County Zoning Administrator and County Engineer, if
applicable, concerning matters indicated in §
151.017, shall accept or not accept the preliminary plat and plans and
specifications for required improvements within 90 days of receipt thereof.
      (2)   If accepted, the Commission will recommend acceptance of the
preliminary plat and plans and specifications for required improvements by the
municipality within 30 days of its next regular stated meeting following action
of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Acceptance of the preliminary plat and plans and specifications for
required improvements will authorize the subdivider/developer to proceed with
the proposed improvements in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter
and the minimum design standards. The Commission shall return one copy of the
preliminary plat to the sub divider/developer with the date of acceptance. A
similar copy also will be transmitted by the Commission to the Municipal
Engineer and the County Zoning Administrator and County Engineer, if
applicable.
      (4)   If the preliminary plat is not accepted by the Commission, the
subdivider/developer must be furnished with a letter stating the reason for
nonacceptance.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.050)
   (C)   Acceptance; permit for improvements; surety bond. The subdivider,
after the acceptance of the preliminary plat, may:
      (1)   Secure from the municipality the necessary permits to proceed with
the required improvements; or in lieu of this; or
      (2)   (a)   Post with the Commission a surety bond, in form prescribed by
the Commission, sufficient to cover the full cost of improvements based upon
estimate accepted by the Municipal Engineer.
         (b)   This will ensure the satisfactory installation of required
improvements in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and the
minimum design standards.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.060)
(Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.019 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Filing; information required.
      (1)   (a)   The subdivider/developer, upon completion of all required
improvements, or upon the posting of a bond, shall file with Planning
Commission the final or record plat of the subdivision for final acceptance.
This plat should conform in every respect with the requirements specified
herein.
         (b)   The subdivider/developer shall submit the final plat not later
than one year after acceptance of the preliminary plat has been granted. The
final or record plat of any portion of a larger subdivision, previously having
received acceptance, may be submitted for acceptance.
         (c)   Application for acceptance of a part or parts of this larger
subdivision may be made beyond one year from the date of acceptance of the
preliminary plat with the written consent of the governing body of the
municipality; however, improvements shall be installed or bond posted for all
parts of the subdivision included in the final plat.
      (2)   The subdivider/developer shall file with the Planning Commission
six black line or blue line prints, and also the original tracing, of the final
or record plat, and a formal request for acceptance thereof, along with two
copies of all covenants or restrictions pertaining to the plat. The
municipality shall have 60 days in which to accept the final plat.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.070)
   (B)   Review by Municipal Engineer. 
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall then transmit a print and the
original tracing of the final or record plat to the Municipal Engineer for the
purpose of review.
      (2)   If found to be acceptable, the original tracing will be returned by
the Municipal Engineer to the Planning Commission, together with a two-fold
certificate showing that:
         (a)   The technical details of the plat itself have been reviewed and
found to be acceptable; or
         (b)   All required improvements have been satisfactorily completed, or
in lieu thereof, a surety bond has been posted, insuring their installation.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.080)
   (C)   Review by County Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall then transmit, if applicable, a print
and the original tracing of the final or record plat to the County Planning
Commission for its review.
      (2)   The County Planning Commission shall then forward a letter stating
such letter is in conformance with accepted preliminary plats.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.090)
   (D)   Acceptance; distribution of copies. The Planning Commission, after the
original tracing of the final plat together with the certificates and letter
have been received by the Commission from the Municipal Engineer, and provided
that, the final plat is found to be in reasonable conformity with the
preliminary plat as tentatively accepted, shall transmit five prints of the
final plat, along with the original tracing and transparent copy, to the
municipality for acceptance. Such final plat shall bear an official notation
reading: “Recommended for acceptance this _____day of _____, 20
Signed_________Chairperson of the City of Nashville Planning Commission”.
Thereupon, the municipality shall return three accepted prints and the accepted
original tracing of the final plat to the Commission, one for the Commission’s
files, two for the Zoning Administrator, and the original tracing to the
subdivider/developer.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.100)
(Ord. 96-11, passed - - 1996)
§ 151.020 PERFORMANCE AND MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   The subdivider/developer shall be required to post a mandatory performance
and maintenance bond in event a subdivider or developer goes bankrupt or
otherwise leaves the project in a state of disrepair. Such bond shall be held
by the City Clerk and shall become effective upon acceptance of the final plat
by the municipality, unless otherwise stipulated. Maintenance bonds shall run
for two years on street paving and drainage improvements, and three years on
sewer and water improvements.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.110) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.021 FEES WITH APPLICATION FOR PLAT ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   At the time of filing of final plat or report for acceptance, the
subdivider/developer shall pay to the City Clerk a fee according to the
following schedule:
      (1)   Residential lots.
 
Number of Residential Lots in Fee
Subdivision
1 to 25                       $25 per lot
26 or more                    $625 plus $15 per lot for each lot over
                              25
 
      (2)   Commercial or industrial lots.
 
Number of Commercial or Industrial Lots in Fee
Subdivision
1 to 25                                    $75 per lot
6 or more lots                             $375 plus $50 for each lot over 5
 
   (B)   All fees shall be deposited in the General Fund of the municipality.
No fee shall be charged for processing the preliminary plat.
(1978 Code, § 16.12.120) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 151.035 FILING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   (a)   Except as specifically provided otherwise below, every person
who proposes to sub divide any land located within the subdivision and land
development jurisdiction of this municipality shall file a preliminary plat of
said subdivision or development with the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The subdivider/developer shall also file one copy of the
preliminary plat and supporting data with the County Soil and Water
Conservation District. Said District shall have not more than 30 days to submit
any comments it might wish to make to the Planning Commission (70 ILCS 405/
22.02a).
      (2)   Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a
portion of that tract is to be submitted for final plat acceptance,
nonetheless, a preliminary tract of the entire plat shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   Plats reviewed in according to municipal law. All preliminary plats
shall be reviewed and acted upon in accordance with § 11-12-7 of the State
Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-12-7) and the provisions set forth in this
subchapter.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Land that is specifically exempted from the Plat Act, as amended
(765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.);
      (2)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access; except that all such divisions shall be accompanied by a plat of survey
on no less than legal size paper (eight and one-half inches by 14 inches),
showing the boundaries of each division and recorded in the County Recorder’s
office;
      (4)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
      (5)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests thereon for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other pipe
lines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access, except
that the division shall be surveyed by an state registered land surveyor and
recorded by the County Recorder;
      (6)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyance relating to the dedication of land for public use as
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (7)   Conveyance made to correct description in prior conveyances;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
greater than five acres and existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any
new streets or easements of access;
      (9)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access; and
      (10)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by an state registered land surveyor and recorded
with the County Recorder; provided, however, that this exemption shall not
apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same larger tract of land, as
determined by the dimensions and configuration of the larger tract existing as
of October 1, 1973.
(1978 Code, § 16.16.010) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996; Ord. 2009-7, passed 8-6-
2009)
§ 151.036 SUBMITTED TO PLANNING COMMISSION FOR ACCEPTANCE.
   The preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision or development, and six
blue or black line prints, prepared by a state registered land surveyor, shall
accompany an application in writing to the Planning Commission for tentative
acceptance of the subdivision or development in order that permits may be
secured for the installation of improvements and formal request for final
acceptance of the final plat submitted thereafter.
(1978 Code, § 16.16.020) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.037 VICINITY SKETCH REQUIRED.
   (A)   A vicinity sketch at a scale of 400 feet or less to the inch shall be
drawn on or shall accompany the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Such vicinity sketch shall show all adjacent existing subdivisions and
their names, the tract lines of acreage parcels of land together with the names
of record owners of such parcels, and all street and alley lines immediately
adjoining the proposed subdivisions and between it and the nearest existing
highways or thoroughfares.
(1978 Code, § 16.16.030) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.038 HORIZONTAL SCALE.
   The horizontal scale of the preliminary plat shall be 100 feet or less to
the inch.
(1978 Code, § 16.16.040) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.039 CONTENTS.
   The preliminary plat shall clearly show and include the following features
and information, and shall be on a drawing having dimensions not greater than
24 inches by 36 inches:
   (A)   The proposed name of the subdivision, which should not duplicate or
closely approximate the name of any other subdivision in the municipality or
environs;
   (B)   An accurate description of the property involved according to the real
estate records of the county;
   (C)   The names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owners of record, the
subdivider, and the surveyor who prepared the plat;
   (D)   The names of adjoining subdivisions and the names of record owners of
adjoining parcels or unplatted land;
   (E)   The boundary lines, accurate in scale, of the tract to be subdivided;
   (F)   The location, widths, and names of all existing or platted streets or
other public ways and easements within or immediately adjacent to the tract,
corporation lines, section, and quarter-section lines, and other important
features such as existing permanent buildings, watercourses, railroad lines,
and the like;
   (G)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts, and other underground
structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto, with pipe size
and grades indicated;
   (H)   Contours, at intervals and referenced to USGS datum as required by the
minimum design standards;
   (I)   The layout, proposed names, and widths of proposed streets, alleys,
and easements; description of use and purpose of easements with identification
of any covenants for use and maintenance; the location and size of water mains
with related facilities; the location of sanitary sewerage facilities with
appurtenances; the location and approximate sizes of proposed storm sewers and
culverts and appurtenances and other drainage structures; the layout, numbers,
and approximate dimensions and areas of proposed lots;
   (J)   Proposed front yard setback or other setback lines;
   (K)   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated or reserved for public
use, or to be reserved in the deeds for the common use of property owners in
the subdivision, with the purpose, conditions, or limitations of such
dedication or reservation indicated;
   (L)   North point, scale, and date (It is preferable that north be either up
or to the right on the drawing.);
   (M)   Copies of any proposed restrictions; and
   (N)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided or
developed.
(1978 Code, § 16.16.050) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.040 ACCEPTANCE OR NONACCEPTANCE BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall either accept or not accept the
application for preliminary plat within 90 days from the date of said
application or filing of the last item of required supporting data, whichever
is later, unless the Planning Commission and subdivider/developer mutually
agree to extend this time limit.
(65 ILCS 5/11-12-8)
   (B)   If the Planning Commission does not accept the preliminary plat, it
shall furnish to the applicant within the 90-day period a written statement
specifying the aspects in which the proposed preliminary plat fails to conform
to this subchapter and/or the official map. If the Planning Commission accepts
the preliminary plat, it shall promptly so inform the governing body of the
municipality.
(1978 Code, § 16.16.060) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.041 ACCEPTANCE OF NONACCEPTANCE BY GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   If the Planning Commission has accepted a preliminary plat, the
governing body of the municipality, by resolution, shall either accept or not
accept such plat within 30 days after their next regularly scheduled meeting
following the Planning Commission’s action.
   (B)   If the governing body of the municipality does not accept the
preliminary plat, its resolution shall specify the aspects in which the
proposed preliminary plat fails to comply with this subchapter and/or the
official map. The municipal Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the
municipality’s acceptance or nonacceptance to the proposed preliminary plat.
   (C)   One copy of the resolution and preliminary plat shall be retained by
the Clerk, one copy shall be filed with the municipality’s Zoning
Administrator, and one copy shall be returned to the sub divider/developer.
Acceptance by the governing body of the municipality shall not qualify a
preliminary plat for recording.
(1978 Code, § 16.16.070) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.042 DESIGN CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   After the governing body of the municipality has accepted the
preliminary plat, but prior to submission of the final plat, the subdivider/
developer shall furnish four copies of the design and construction documents to
the Zoning Administrator for purposes of review by the Municipal Engineer and
other departments of the municipality.
   (B)   (1)   Design documents, construction plans, and specifications in
accordance with minimum design standards for required improvements to be
installed by the subdivider/developer shall be prepared by a registered state
professional engineer, whose signature and seal shall appear on such plans, and
two copies of documents required in the minimum design standards shall be
furnished the Municipal Engineer.
      (2)   These required documents shall be revised as may be necessary to be
accepted by the Municipal Engineer before required improvements are installed.
The plans and specifications shall comply with requirements indicated in the
minimum design standards, and shall include but not be limited to water mains,
sanitary sewerage system, stormwater drainage system, grading plan, and other
information necessary to comply with this subchapter.
   (C)   Until the Municipal Engineer confirms in writing that the required
improvements are in accord with the minimum design standards and requirements
of this subchapter, the governing body of the municipality shall not act upon
the application for final plat acceptance or issue any building permit.
(1978 Code, § 16.16.080) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
FINAL PLATS
§ 151.055 CONTENTS.
   (A)   After required improvements have been installed and accepted by the
municipality, or surety bond filed, in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter, six black line or blue line prints and also the original tracing
prepared on new polyester-base film with water-proof black ink on a drawing no
larger than 24 inches by 36 inches of the final or record plat of the
subdivision, or of any plat of a larger subdivision, shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission with formal request for acceptance.
   (B)   The final plat shall be drawn at the scale of 100 feet or less to the
inch, and shall clearly show the following features and information:
      (1)   Accurate metes and bounds legal description of the property,
including reference to the section, township and range, section lines, and
corners, quarter-sections lines;
      (2)   All plat boundary lines with lengths of courses to one-hundredths
of a foot and bearings or angles to nearest second based on an accurate survey
in the field closing with an error of closure of not more than one foot in
10,000 feet;
      (3)   The exact locations and the widths along the property lines of all
existing or recorded streets intersecting or paralleling the boundaries of the
tract;
      (4)   Bearing and distance to nearest established street bounds, other
established survey lines, or other official monuments, which monuments must be
located or accurately described on the plat. Any established survey or
corporation lines shall be accurately monument-marked and located on the plat,
and their names shall be lettered on them;
      (5)   The accurate location and material of all permanent reference
monuments. Such monuments should be concrete cylinders or rectangular prisms,
not less than four inches in diameter or square, and 24 inches long, located at
extreme corners of the subdivision. Other markers should be steel rods not less
than three-fourths inch in diameter and 24 inches long, located at all street
corners, at all points where street lines intersect the plat boundary lines and
at angle points and points of curve in each street; and shall be one-half inch
square iron pins, 24 inches in length, at all lot corners;
      (6)   The exact layout including:
         (a)   Street and alley lines; their names, bearings, angles of
intersection, and width (including widths along the line of any obliquely-
intersecting street);
         (b)   The lengths of all arcs; radii, points of curvature, and tangent
bearings;
         (c)   All easements or rights-of-way, when provided for or owned by
public services (with the limitation and covenants of the easement rights
definitely stated on the plat); and
         (d)   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths, and with
bearings or angles to nearest second if other than right angles to the street
and alley lines.
      (7)   Lots numbered in numerical order, and blocks also numbered in
numerical order;
      (8)   The accurate outline of all property which is offered for
dedication for public use, and of all property that may be reserved by covenant
in the deeds for the common use of the property owners in the subdivision, with
the purpose indicated thereon;
      (9)   Front yard setback building lines as established by the zoning
ordinance. Lines of future streets shown on the official map and those setback
lines stipulated in deed restrictions shall also be shown;
      (10)   Private restrictions, if any:
         (a)   Boundaries of each type of use restriction; or
         (b)   Other private restrictions for each definitely restricted
section of the subdivision.
      (11)   Name of the subdivision and name or number of the largest
subdivision or tract of which the tract being subdivided forms a part;
      (12)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions, with reference to
recorded plats of adjoining platted land by record name, plat book, and page
number;
      (13)   Names and addresses of the owner or owners of record, the
subdivider, and of the registered state land surveyor who prepared the plat;
      (14)   The certificates stated in Appendix A shall be executed on the
final plat;
      (15)   North point, scale, and date (It is preferable that north be up or
to the right on the drawing.); and
      (16)   Other certificates, required by law, including certificate of
title showing ownership of the tract of land included in the subdivision.
(1978 Code, § 16.20.010) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.056 REVIEW BY MUNICIPAL ENGINEER AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   Within 30 days from the date of application for final plat acceptance, the
Municipal Engineer and Zoning Administrator shall review said final plat (and
supporting data), and shall jointly advise the governing body of this
municipality in writing whether it substantially conforms to the accepted
preliminary plat. A copy of their advisory report shall be forwarded to the
Planning Commission.
(1978 Code, § 16.20.020) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.057 ACCEPTANCE OR NONACCEPTANCE BY GOVERNING BODY.
    (A)   (1)   The governing body of this municipality shall either accept or
not accept the application for final plat acceptance by resolution within 60
days from the date of said application or the filing of the last item or
required supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the governing body
and the sub divider/developer mutually agree to extend this time limit.
      (2)   The governing body of this municipality shall not accept any final
plat unless:
         (a)   The final plat substantially conforms to the accepted
preliminary plat;
         (b)   The final plat and completion of required improvements
substantially comply with the improvement standards of this subchapter, the
minimum design standards, and the official map;
         (c)   To the governing body’s knowledge and belief, the final plat
complies with all pertinent requirements of state law; and
         (d)   Either of the following has been met:
            1.   All required improvements have been satisfactorily completed,
accepted, and dedicated; or
            2.   The subdivider/developer has posted a performance bond or
deposited funds in escrow to guarantee the satisfactory completion of
dedication of all required improvements.
   (B)   If the governing body of this municipality does not accept the final
plat, its resolution shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet
the above conditions for acceptance.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the governing body’s
resolution of acceptance or nonacceptance to the final plat. One copy of the
resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator, and one copy shall be given to the subdivider/
developer.
   (D)   Once a final plat is accepted by the governing body of this
municipality, it shall not thereafter be modified; provided, however, that
minor changes may be made upon written application to the Zoning Administrator.
Major changes require the filing of a new final plat and complete re-review.
(1978 Code, § 16.20.030) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
DESIGN STANDARDS GENERALLY
§ 151.070 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
    In laying out a subdivision or development, the subdivider/developer shall
comply with the general principles and requirements as set forth in this
subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 16.24.010) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.071 CONFORMITY WITH OFFICIAL MAP; OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   The layout shall conform to the official map adopted by the
municipality.
      (1)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a highway,
primary or secondary thoroughfare, or collector street, so designated on the
official map, such part of such public way shall be platted by the sub divider/
developer in the location at the width indicated on the map.
      (2)   Where a proposed park, playground ,or other recreational area,
proposed school site, or other public grounds, shown on the adopted official
map is located in whole or in part within the proposed subdivision, such
proposed public ground or part, if not dedicated to the municipality, school
board, or Park Board or other public agency should be designated for such
public purpose upon acceptance of the preliminary plat.
      (3)   Where such land designated for public purposes appears on the final
plat, the responsible public agency shall purchase such land or begin
condemnation proceedings to purchase such land within one year from the date of
acceptance of the final plat by the municipality.
   (B)   Where considered desirable by the subdivider/developer and held
appropriate by the Planning Commission, open spaces suitably located and of
adequate size for parks, playgrounds, or other recreational purposes for local
or neighborhood use shall be provided for in the design of the proposed
subdivision, and, if not dedicated to the public and accepted by the public
agency, may be reserved for the common use of all property owners in the
proposed subdivision by covenant of the deeds.
(1978 Code, § 16.24.020) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.072 STREET AND BLOCK LAYOUT.
   (A)   The street layout of the subdivision/ development shall be in general
conformity with a plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining areas
and the entire neighborhood.
      (1)   Where appropriate to the design, proposed streets shall be
continuous and in alignment with existing, planned, or platted streets with
which they are to connect.
      (2)   (a)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of
the tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, such
extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of
the subdivision with existing layouts or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
         (b)   Dead-end streets (courts) of reasonable length may be accepted
where topography necessitates or where they are appropriate for the type of
development contemplated.
      (3)   Proposed streets shall intersect on another as nearly at right
angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit, but in
no case at less than 60 degrees. Not more than two streets shall intersect at
any one point. Proposed new intersections shall, wherever practicable in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, coincide with any existing intersections on
the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less
than 150 feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has
divided lanes without median breaks at either intersection.
      (4)   Wherever there exists, adjoining the tract to be subdivided, a
dedicated or platted and recorded half-width street or alley, the other half-
width of such street or alley shall be platted.
      (5)   Alleys should be platted in the rear of all lots to used in
business and industrial zoning districts.
      (6)   Alleys shall not be platted in residential zoning districts.
   (B)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, unless in the opinion of the Planning Commission, prevented
by exceptional topography or other physical conditions.
      (1)   The lengths of blocks shall be such as are appropriate in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, for the locality and the type of
development contemplated, but shall not exceed 800 feet.
      (2)   In any block over 600 feet in length, the Planning Commission may
require that a crosswalk or pedestrian way, not less than ten feet wide, be
provided near the center and entirely across such block.
(1978 Code, § 16.24.030) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.073 MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS OF STREETS, ALLEYS, AND EASEMENTS FOR
UTILITIES.
   (A)   Minimum right-of-way widths of streets and alleys shall be not less
than indicated in the minimum design standards.
   (B)   All dead-end streets shall have minimum right-of-way width as
indicated in the minimum design standards and shall terminate in a circular
turn around having minimum right-of-way diameter as indicated in the minimum
design standards.
   (C)   Easements for utilities, where required, shall be at least ten feet
wide centered on each side of rear or side lot lines, with a total minimum
width of 20 feet. Where easements are required along lot lines adjacent to
property not located within the boundary of the subdivision or development,
they shall be at least 15 feet in width.
(1978 Code, § 16.24.040) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.074 MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   All portions of the street and alley pavement shall be installed at the
expense of the subdivider or developer, including the turning circle at the end
of a dead-end street or cul-de-sac and shall be as indicated in the minimum
design standards.
(1978 Code, § 16.24.050) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.075 STREET GRADES, CURVES, SIGHT DISTANCES, AND SIDEWALK RAMPS.
   (A)   The grades, site distances, and cross slopes of streets shall be
within the limits indicated in the minimum design standards.
   (B)   The radii of curvature on the centerline shall be not less than
indicated in the minimum design standards. A tangent of at least 100 feet in
length shall be introduced between reverse curves.
   (C)   Curbs shall be cut and sidewalks shall be ramped at all intersections
so as to facilitate mobility of disabled individuals, with maximum slope not
exceeding the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), being
42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(1978 Code, § 16.24.060) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.076 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii not less than
indicated in the minimum design standards.
   (B)   The gradient and cross slopes at street intersections shall comply
with the requirements indicated in the minimum design standards.
(1978 Code, § 16.24.070) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.077 LOTS.
   (A)   The size, shape, and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated.
   (B)   Excessive depth in relation of width ordinarily shall be avoided.
   (C)   Every lot shall abut on a street.
   (D)   Lots for residence purposes shall be at least 50 feet wide at the
building setback line, in order to permit compliance with the side yard
requirements of the zoning ordinance and still be adequate for a building of
practicable width. Further, such lots shall be at least 15 feet wide at the
street right-of-way.
   (E)   Corner lots for residential use ordinarily shall be platted wider than
interior in order to permit conformance with the setback required by the zoning
ordinance on the side street. A corner lot shall be deemed to have two front
yard and two side yard lot lines in regards to building set back lines and
rules.
   (F)   Residential lots fronting on highways, thoroughfares, and collectors
shall have extra depth to permit deep setbacks for the building.
   (G)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to the right-of-
way line of the street on which the lot fronts.
(1978 Code, § 16.24.080) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.090 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All required improvements shall be completely installed in accordance with
the minimum require ments and regulations, as set forth in this subchapter, and
the minimum design standards, prior to the filing of the final plat for final
acceptance.
(1978 Code, § 16.28.010) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.091 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT OR BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   All of the improvements required under this subchapter and the minimum
design standards shall be constructed under contract accepted by the municipal
Municipal Engineer and Municipal Attorney in respect to construction details
and periodic observations by representatives of the municipality of the
improvements to be installed, and shall be completed prior to the filing with
the Planning Commission of the final or record plat and request for final
acceptance.
   (B)   In lieu of completing the required improvements as indicated herein
and in the minimum design standards, the subdivider/developer shall furnish to
the Planning Commission a surety bond, sufficient to cover the cost of any or
all of the improvements required to be installed by the sub divider/developer,
based on an estimate of cost accepted by the Municipal Engineer, thereby to
secure the actual construction and installation of such required improvements
within one year after the final acceptance of the final plat, subject to
extension by the Commission.
(1978 Code, § 16.28.020) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.092 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Streets shall be graded to full width and constructed in accord with
requirements indicated in the minimum design standards. The construction of
curb and gutter in front of any lot in the subdivision must also be completed.
   (B)   Sidewalks of such width and type of construction as indicated in the
minimum design standards shall be constructed at the following locations:
      (1)   On at least one side of the street in residential zoning districts
where residential density is between two and four dwelling units per acre, and
if required by the Planning Commission to enhance pedestrian traffic and safety
in indus trial/manufacturing zoning districts;
      (2)   On both sides of the street in residential zoning districts where
residential density is four or more dwelling units per net acre;
      (3)   Along collector streets, near schools, and in shopping areas and
similar public places;
      (4)   On both sides of the street in commercial and business zoning
districts; or
      (5)   As each subdivider/developer requests, based on concurrence with
the Planning Commission.
(1978 Code, § 16.28.030) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.093 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   The subdivider/developer shall supply and/or bear the cost of supplying
public utilities.
   (A)   Every subdivision and development shall be provided with a complete
water distribution system with related appurtenances to serve the area being
platted. The water distribution system facilities shall comply with the
requirements of the minimum design standards.
   (B)   Every subdivision within city limits shall be provided with a natural
gas system adequate to serve the area provided and otherwise meeting the
acceptance of the City Gas Engineer.
   (C)   (1)   In every subdivision, provisions shall be made for the
satisfactory disposal of sanitary sewage in a manner to comply with the
requirements of the minimum design standards and regulations of the State
Environmental Protection Agency and/or State Department of Public Health and/or
County Public Health Department.
      (2)   Where a public sanitary sewer main is within 1,000 feet of the
boundary of the subdivision or development, the subdivision shall be provided
with a complete sanitary sewer system connected into the public sanitary sewer
main, including a lateral connection for each lot. Where a public sanitary
sewer main is not located within the subdivision or development boundary
proximity stated herein, proper provisions shall be made for the disposal of
sanitary waste subject to requirements of the minimum design standards and the
State Department of Public Health and/or County Public Health Department.
   (D)   Stubs on water and sewer services shall be extended across streets and
to the lot’s property line coincidental with the street right-of-way line for
each lot in the subdivision.
   (E)   (1)   Streetlights shall be provided at each intersection of streets
(or alleys) within a subdivision or development and at each cul-de-sac, but in
no event shall there be less than one streetlight per 400 feet (or portion
thereof) of street frontage between intersections, or between a street
intersection and the terminus of a dead-end street.
      (2)   Additionally, in multi-family, business, and manufacturing zoning
districts, street lighting shall be provided within parking areas at a minimum
rate of one light for each 25 parking spaces or any fraction thereof. The
design and installation of the streetlight system in every subdivision and
development shall be reviewed by the Municipal Engineer and the appropriate
electric utility company.
      (3)   The lighting intensity of each streetlight shall be equivalent, as
a minimum, to a 175-watt lamp or 6,800-mercury luminary lamp. Each streetlight
standard shall be at least 16 feet high.
      (4)   The subdivider shall contact the City Utilities Superintendent to
engage Illinois Power to install said streetlights. The subdivider shall then
reimburse the city for its costs incurred in said installation.
   (F)   Underground service connections to the property line of each platted
lot, at the option of the subdivider/developer, shall be installed at the
expense of the subdivider/developer; provided, that on the recommendation of
the Planning Commission, the requirement for service connections to each lot
may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership.
(1978 Code, § 16.28.040) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.094 STORMWATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend acceptance of any
plat unless, after consultation with the Municipal Engineer, they determine
that the proposed provisions for stormwater drainage are adequate. Drainage
improvements in the subdivision or development shall be coordinated with
existing and planned drainage improvements elsewhere so as to form an
integrated municipal system.
      (2)   The stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of
the sanitary sewer system. The storm drainage facilities shall comply with the
requirements indicated in the minimum design standards.
   (B)   Manholes, inlets, and catch basins, if required, shall be constructed
to comply with the requirements in the minimum design standards, so that
surface water is not carried across or around any intersection, or for a
distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter.
   (C)   A culvert or other drainage facility large enough to accommodate
potential runoff from the entire drainage area upstream from the proposed
subdivision or development shall be provided in accordance with the minimum
design standards. Potential runoff shall be determined on the basis of the
maximum development of the upstream area that is permitted under the zoning
district regulations.
   (D)   The subdivider/developer and Municipal Engineer shall give due
consideration of the effect of any proposed subdivision or development on
downstream areas. Where it is anticipated that additional runoff or increased
rate of runoff incident to construction of the subdivision or development will
overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the municipality shall
require the subdivider/developer to install additional drainage improvements to
alleviate the overload problem and/or stormwater management facilities require
the minimum design standards.
   (E)   (1)   It is the policy of the municipality to discourage and/or
prohibit subdivisions and developments in areas subject to flooding, including
during 100-year storm recurrence interval.
      (2)   Whenever a plat is submitted for an area that is subject to
flooding, the municipality shall require appropriate protective measures, which
measures shall meet the requirements of the State Department of Transportation,
Division of Water Resources and Corps of Engineers, and other jurisdictional
agencies.
   (F)   (1)   Adequate easements for stormwater drainage shall be established
along any natural or new drainage channel in any other locations where
necessary to provide satisfactory disposal of stormwater from streets, alleys,
and all other portions of the subdivision or development. The precise location
and minimum widths of said easements shall be reviewed and accepted by the
Municipal Engineer.
      (2)   The owner of the lot or tract where drainage easements are located
shall be responsible for continuing and proper maintenance of the drainage way
within the limits of the easement. This requirement shall be clearly indicated
on the final plat as a covenant for acceptance of the subdivision or
development by the municipality.
(1978 Code, § 16.28.050) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.095 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   (A)   Street name signs of the size, height, and type accepted by the
municipality shall be placed by the subdivider/developer at all intersections
within or abutting the subdivision or development. A street which is planned as
a continuation of an existing street shall bear the same name.
   (B)   Street names shall be sufficiently different in sound and spelling
from other street names in this municipality so as to avoid confusion. The
subdivider/developer shall purchase street signs from the municipality for
purposes of standardization, and shall bear all costs of installing the street
name signs prior to acceptance of the final plat, and in accord with the
minimum design standards.
1978 Code, § 16.28.060) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.096 GRADING, LANDSCAPING, AND EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   In the construction of any subdivision or development, the requirements of
the minimum design standards and the following erosion and sedimentation
control regulations shall be complied with for grading, landscaping, and all
construction activities that disturb natural groundcover.
   (A)   The subdivision or development shall conform to all natural
limitations presented by topography and soil so as to create the least
potential for soil erosion.
   (B)   Large trees (those having a diameter of four inches or more when
measured 12 inches above the ground) shall be retained and protected to the
maximum extent consistent with development of the site.
   (C)   Land shall be developed in the smallest increments of workable size so
that adequate erosion and sediment controls can be provided and coordinated
with ongoing construction work. When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for
the shortest feasible period of time.
   (D)   Temporary vegetations, or where appropriate, mulching or other
nonviable cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during development and
construction.
   (E)   (1)   Adequate provisions shall be made to effectively accommodate the
increased stormwater runoff volume and runoff rate caused by changed soil and
surface conditions both during and after development.
      (2)   Appropriate devices, such as sediment basins, debris basins,
desilting basins, or silt traps, shall be installed and maintained to remove
sediment from surface waters leaving the subdivision or development.
   (F)   No lot shall be occupied until:
      (1)   Grading has been completed in accordance with the minimum design
standards and accepted improvement plans; and
      (2)   At least four inches of topsoil equal in quality to the soil that
was on-site prior to development has been spread over open areas not occupied
by buildings, paving, and other improvements.
(1978 Code, § 16.28.070) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.097 RECORD CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Where the construction of required improvements as performed varies
from the plans filed and accepted as hereinbefore required, record construction
drawings refleeting as-constructed conditions shall be filed with the Municipal
Engineer.
   (B)   If such construction does not vary from said plans, reproducible
drawings of all required improvements shall be filed with the Municipal
Engineer in accord with requirements indicated in the minimum design standards.
(1978 Code, § 16.28.080) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.098 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider/developer shall maintain all of the improvements in the
subdivision or development until they have been accepted by and dedicated to
this municipality or other appropriate entity.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to dedication, the sub divider/developer shall post a
maintenance bond with the City Clerk in the form accepted by the Municipal
Attorney.
      (2)   Said bond shall be in the amount determined by the Municipal
Engineer to be sufficient to guarantee satisfactory condition of the required
improvements for a period of two years from the date of their acceptance and
dedication.
      (3)   If at any time during the two-year period the improvements or any
portion thereof are found to be defective, they shall be repaired/replaced at
the expense of the subdivider/developer. If the subdivider/developer fails or
refuses to pay such costs within 90 days after demand is made upon it by the
Zoning Administrator, this municipality shall use the maintenance bond to make
the necessary repairs/replacement.
      (4)   If the cost of repairs/replacements exceeds the bond amount, the
subdivider/developer shall be liable for the excess. At the end of the two-
year period, the maintenance bond shall be released.
(1978 Code, § 16.28.090) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Use of subchapter limited. This subchapter applies exclusively to
subdivisions and developments under the jurisdiction of the city. It is not
intended that the subchapter be used for any other purposes.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.010)
   (B)    Introduction and general requirements.
      (1)   The minimum design standards (standards) set forth in this
subchapter shall apply to all required improvements for subdivision and land
development projects within the jurisdiction set forth in the city’s
(municipality) subdivision and land development control ordinance (this
chapter).
      (2)   These standards identify minimum criteria for design and
construction of improvements required by this subchapter. Design documents
(drawings, specifications, exhibits, and the like) shall reflect compliance
with these standards. It is intended that good engineering practice and
construction procedures be applied to all projects designed and constructed for
required improvements under jurisdiction this subchapter.
      (3)   Where reference is made to contractor and/or subcontractor, it
shall mean the subdivider/developer if the subdivider/developer is providing
construction services for required improvements.
      (4)   Elevations are to be shown for grading plans, street construction,
storm drainage facilities, and sanitary sewer facilities. All elevations shall
be based on USGS datum, and at least one benchmark shall be established at the
site of the subdivision/development and shall be clearly identified on the
improvement drawings.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.020)
   (C)   Certification of compliance.
      (1)   The subdivider’s engineer for development of required improvements
shall issue to the municipality the following certification of compliance
before the municipality will accept the final plat and issue building permits
within the subdivision or development.
      (2)   The certification shall bear the original signature, date, and seal
of the state registered professional engineer engaged to prepare the plans and
specifications for required improvements by the sub divider/developer.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.030)
   (D)   Compliance with general conditions. Contractors and/or subcontractors
engaged by the subdivider/developer for contracts involving development
improvements required by this sub chapter shall be bound to comply with the
Standard General Conditions of the Construction Contract prepared by Engineers
Joint Contract Documents Committee, issued and published jointly by the
National Society of Professional Engineers, Consulting Engineering Council,
American Society of Civil Engineers, and Construction Specifications Institute,
edition current at time of preliminary plat filing.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.040)
   (E)   Supplemental requirements; insurance. In addition to the requirements
of the referenced in division (D) above, contractors and/or subcontractors
engaged by the subdivider/developer for contracts involving development
improvements required by this subchapter shall comply with the following
minimum insurance requirements prior to commencement of any work.
      (1)   Compensation insurance. Worker’s compensation insurance for all of
its employees employed at the site of the project. Coverage in accord with the
Worker’s Compensation Act of the state, being 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq., shall be
provided for all operations with the minimum employer’s liability limit of
$500,000.
      (2)   Comprehensive general liability insurance.
         (a)   Premises and operations coverage insuring against claims and
damages because of bodily injury and property damage in or about the project
site and/or related, directly or indirectly, to the work, with a general
aggregate limit of not less than $1,000,000, and each occurrence limit of not
less than $1,000,000.
         (b)   The following special hazards shall be covered by the contractor
and/or subcontractor, whose work involves these hazards, by rider or
endorsement to the comprehensive general liability insurance policies
hereinabove required (or by separate policies of insurance) in amounts as
specified hereinabove:
            1.   Blasting, explosion, and collapse and underground hazard;
            2.   Damage to underground utilities;
            3.   Trucking and motor vehicle operations; and
            4.   Product; completed operations hazard.
      (3)   Comprehensive auto liability insurance. All owned, non-owned, and
hired vehicles under control of the contractor or its subcontractors with the
minimum limits of liability to be $500,000 each occurrence for property damage,
or a combined single limit of not less than $1,000,000.
      (4)   Subdivider/developer, ccontractor and/or subcontractors, and
municipality’s protective liability insurance.
         (a)   Subdividers/developers, contractors, and/or subcontractors shall
obtain the municipality’s protective liability insurance to cover claim
demands, suits, or judgments which the subdivider/developer, contractor, and/or
subcontractors and municipality becomes obligated to pay as damage from bodily
injury or property damage caused by or arising out of the operations performed
under this project. This insurance shall include the municipality as a named
insured.
         (b)   The limit of liability shall be not less than $1,000,000 each
occurrence.
      (5)   Waiver of subrogation and release. With respect to all insurance as
required to be maintained as set forth herein, the contractor and/or
subcontractors release and waive on behalf of themselves and their respective
insurers any and all rights of recovery against the municipality and their
respective officials, directors, officers, employees, agents, and
representatives for loss of or damage to contractor and/or subcontractors or
any third party to the extent that such loss or damage is insured against any
applicable insurance policy.
      (6)   Insured parties. All of the insurance policies required to be
obtained by contractor and/or subcontractors set forth hereinabove (except
worker’s compensation insurance), shall name the municipality as additional
insured.
      (7)   Certificate of insurance.
         (a)   Prior to commencement of any work, the contractor and/or
subcontractors shall deliver to the municipality, for its review, certificates
of insurance from the insurer, evidencing that all of the above described
insurance has been obtained by the contractor and/or subcontractors.
         (b)   All of such certificates of insurance shall:
            1.   Specify that the respective insurance policies shall not be
canceled, modified, or amended without and until 30 days’ advance written
notice is issued to the municipality;
            2.   Contain a specific acknowledgment of specified requirements
for this project and the contractual liability indemnification obligations of
the insurers herein;
            3.   Evidence the additional insureds of the respective policies;
and
            4.   Evidence the coverage amounts, deductibles, and limits of each
policy. The certificate shall state the type of insuring agreement, whether
occurrence or claims made.
      (8)   Indemnity agreement.
         (a)   The contractor and/or subcontractors agree that it will save and
hold harmless the municipality from any and all claims that may arise on the
part of any of said contractor’s and/or subcontractor’s employees, agents, or
servants, by reason of injury, death, or any claim while in pursuit of the
contractor’s and/or subcontractor’s obligations under this project, and that
all employees, agents, or servants of the contractor and/or subcontractor shall
in no way be construed to be employees of the municipality.
         (b)   The contractor and/or subcontractor shall furnish public
liability insurance in the principal sum of not less than $1,000,000, with
insurance carrier thereon satisfactory to the municipality indemnifying and
saving harmless the municipality from any and all personal injury claims
arising thereunder by reason of the performance of the contractor and/or
subcontractor of its obligations under this project.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.050)
   (F)   Supplemental requirements; safety and health regulations.
      (1)   Safety and Health Regulations for Construction, and subsequent
amendments thereto, as established by the Department of Labor are incorporated
in this subchapter as if fully set forth herein, and shall govern all work
performed. The regulations are comprised of 29 C.F.R. Ch. 17 part 1926, as
amended.
      (2)   (a)   The contractor and/or subcontractor shall be responsible for
running safe operations and for all safety procedures. Supervision and control
of work and safety procedures shall be under the direct and sole responsibility
of the contractor and/or subcontractor, including such procedures for their
employees.
         (b)   Neither the municipality nor its agents, servants, employees, or
officials shall be construed as having authority or responsibility to supervise
or direct the working and safety procedures of the contractor’s and/or
subcontractor’s or their employees.
         (c)   The presence of the municipality’s agents, servants, employees,
or officials at the project site shall not imply their cognizance or acceptance
of safety practices and procedures of the contractor and/or subcontractors.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.060)
   (G)   Supplemental requirements; water for testing. Water for testing water
mains and sanitary sewers may be obtained from the municipality’s system. The
contractor and/or subcontractor shall pay for water used for testing in accord
with the municipality’s water rate for such purposes.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.070)
(Ord. 96-12, passed - -1996)
§ 151.111 WATER MAIN IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Plans and specifications.
      (1)   Drawings for water main improvements shall be prepared on 24-inch
by 36-inch sheets.
      (2)    Layout drawings shall include, but not be limited to, the
following minimum information:
         (a)   Name of subdivision or development;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of subdivider/developer and
state registered professional engineer that prepared the design and documents;
         (c)   Date of submittal, with revision block to identify submittal
sequence of dates and purpose of submittal;
         (d)   North arrow (it is preferable that north be up or to the right);
         (e)   Scale (it is preferable that the scale of layout drawings be one
inch equals 50 feet, or an enlarged scale to more clearly show the layout of
the project; other drawings shall use a scale appropriate to clearly indicate
details being shown);
         (f)   Layout of boundary, streets, lot lines, and easements, with
dimensions;
         (g)   Location of other project utilities, including, but not limited
to, existing water mains with hydrants and valves in project proximity,
proposed water mains with hydrants and valves included with improvement,
existing and proposed sanitary sewers and related facilities, existing and
proposed storm sewers and related facilities, existing and proposed gas mains,
existing and proposed telephone lines, existing and proposed electrical lines,
and other utilities, pipelines, and structures that will affect the
improvements;
         (h)   Indication of horizontal and vertical clearances to be provided
between water mains and sanitary and storm sewers, with protection methods that
may be required to comply with IEPA requirements and standards of good
practice;
         (i)   Signature and seal of state registered professional engineer
that prepared the documents, with date;
         (j)   Depth of cover from finished grade to top of water main, with
tolerance;
         (k)   Identification of materials to be used for water mains,
fittings, and related appurtenances;
         (l)   Identification of size and length of individual water main
sections;
         (m)   Identification of hydrant flow test information, prepared by
project’s state registered professional engineer, to indicate the following
information at the point of connection with each existing water main to be
interconnected to project improvements. Include static pressure, residual
pressure observed, number and size of nozzles flowed, and computed flow
available at 20 psi residual pressure;
         (n)   Gate valves with boxes at intersection with all existing and
proposed water mains, and auxiliary gate valves for fire hydrants, and gate
valves arranged so that no single pipe length greater than 1,000 feet must be
taken out of service for future repairs and/or maintenance;
         (o)   Fire hydrants with auxiliary gate valves and boxes, and minimum
six-inch hydrant lead, located at dead ends and arranged so that hydrant
spacing does not exceed 500 feet;
         (p)   Water mains shall be looped in order to avoid dead ends, where
practical and at locations required by the municipality; and
         (q)   Minimum water main pipe sizes shall be not less than shown on
the following schedule.
 
Zoning District          Minimum Size
Commercial/business      8-inch
Industrial/manufacturing 12-inch
Residential              6-inch
 
      (3)   (a)   Specifications (or special provisions) shall contain
sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with requirements of the
municipality’s standards, and other information as required to identify the
specifications that apply to the required improvement.
         (b)   Specification documents shall be on eight and one-half by
11–inch pages, bound into individual copies.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.080)
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   The engineer engaged by the subdivider/developer to prepare plans
and specifications shall prepare the IEPA permit application documents.
      (2)   Special permits are required, such as for facilities crossing
highways, railroads, or property under jurisdiction of another agency, shall be
obtained by the subdivider/developer, or its engineer.
      (3)   Permits, as required from the State Department of Transportation or
Corps of Engineers, shall be obtained by the subdivider/developer, or its
engineer.
      (4)   The subdivider/developer shall pay all applicable fees for permits.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.090)
   (C)   Reference specifications.
      (1)   Except where noted otherwise in this subchapter, the following
reference specifications shall apply.
      (2)   The edition current at time of preliminary plat filing shall
govern:
         (a)   AWWA Standards, American Water Works Association, 6666 W. Quincy
Avenue
Denver, Colorado 80235;
         (b)   ASTM, American Society for Testing Materials, 1916 Race Street
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103;
         (c)   ANSI, American National Standards Institute, 1430 Broadway New
York, New York 10018;
         (d)   IEPA, State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public
Water Supplies 2200 Churchill Road P.O. Box 19276 Springfield, Illinois 62794-
9276;
         (e)   All applicable regulations, including technical policy
statements, and ten state standards; and
         (f)   Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois referred to in this subchapter as standard W and S specifications.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.100)
   (D)   Brass goods. Comply with AWWA Standard C 800 for brass goods, bronze
items, and copper castings.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.110)
   (E)   PVC pipe.
      (1)   PVC pipe for water mains shall comply with ASTM D 2241 and ANSI B
72. Minimum working pressure rating not less than SDR 21, and DR 18 is
permissible. Comply with NSF 14 requirements for markings and standards for
potable water service. Pipe shall be cast iron outside diameter.
      (2)    PVC material for pipe shall comply with ASTM D 1784 for cell
classification 12454-b.
      (3)   Joints for PVC water main shall be compression type, in accord with
ASTM D 3139. Gaskets shall be in accord with ASTM F 477 for elastomeric seals.
      (4)   ASTM D 1499 for quick burst test, ASTM D 1598 for sustained
pressure test, ASTM D 2444 for impact test, and ASTM D 2152 for acetone
immersion test shall all apply to PVC pipe for water mains.
      (5)   Pipe shall be in standard 20-foot lengths.
      (6)   To comply with the municipality’s standardization policy, all PVC
pipe for water mains shall be manufactured by Cantex, Certainteed, JM
Corporation, Capco, or Vinal Plex.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.120)
   (F)   Ductile iron pipe.
      (1)   Ductile iron pipe shall comply with AWWA Standard C 110. Provide
mechanical joints on pipe. Ductile iron pipe, including bolting, shall also
comply with AWWA Standards C 115, C 150 and C 151. Minimum Class 50 thickness
Class;
      (2)   All ductile iron pipe shall be cement mortar lined in accord with
AWWA Standard C 104, standard thickness; and
      (3)   Furnish to the municipality’s Superintendent of Utilities two
copies of affidavit of compliance with AWWA standards no later than time of
delivery and prior to installation. Mark name of subdivision/development on
affidavit.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.130)
   (G)   Ductile iron fittings.
      (1)   Ductile iron fittings shall have mechanical joints. Fittings,
including bolting, shall comply with AWWA Standards C 110, C 111 and C 153.
Where fittings are to connect to PVC pipe, include transition gaskets as
required to make all connections. Furnish to the municipality’s Superintendent
of Utilities two copies of affidavit of compliance with AWWA standards no later
than time of delivery and prior to installation. Mark name of subdivision/
development on affidavit; and
      (2)   Bolting, gaskets, and related accessories shall be furnished by the
fitting manufacturer and shall be packaged and labeled with name of fitting
manufacturer.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.140)
   (H)   Gate valves.
      (1)   All gate valves, four- through 12-inch size, shall be in accord
with AWWA Standard C 509. Protective interior coatings for gate valves shall
comply with AWWA Standard C 550. Gate valves shall be resilient seat with
nonrising stem, and shall open when turned counter-clockwise. All gate valves
shall be suitable for direct burial, including standard operating nut;
      (2)   Gate valves smaller than four inches shall comply with AWWA
Standard C 500;
      (3)   Provide gate valves with transition gaskets and necessary
accessories to connect with PVC pipe when PVC pipe material is used for water
mains;
      (4)   All gate valves shall open and close freely, and shall close
bottle-tight under all service conditions; and
      (5)   Furnish to the municipality’s Superintendent of Utilities two
copies of affidavit of compliance with referenced AWWA standards. Mark name of
subdivision/development on affidavits.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.150)
   (I)   Valve boxes. Valve boxes shall be cast or ductile iron, five and one-
quarter-inch diameter adjustable from two feet to three and one-half feet, with
cast or ductile iron cover marked “WATER”.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.160)
   (J)   Water main materials; tapping valves.
      (1)   Tapping valve shall be in accord with specified requirements for
gate valves. Valve shall permit achieving minimum tap opening as shown on the
following table.
 
Main Size Shell Cut
4-inch    3.5-inch
6-inch    5.5-inch
8-inch    7.5-inch
10-inch   9.5-inch
12-inch   11.5-inch
 
      (2)   Tapping valve shall be flanged by mechanical joint, with flange
complying with ANSI B 16.1, Class 125, including bolting.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.170)
   (K)   Tapping sleeves. 
      (1)   Tapping sleeves shall be cast or ductile iron, rated for 200 psi
service. Outlet flange shall comply with ANSI B 16.1, Class 125, including
bolting. Tapping sleeves shall be sized for type of pipe being tapped. Sleeves
shall be mechanical joint-type with totally confined end and side gaskets to
eliminate cold flow and creep; and
      (2)   Reinforce cross sections to strengthen section modulus. Tapping
sleeves shall permit achieving minimum tap opening (shell cut) as specified for
tapping valves.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.180)
   (L)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall comply with AWWA Standard C 502. Fire hydrants
shall be Mueller Company Centurion to comply with the municipality’s
standardization policy;
      (2)   Fire hydrants shall be six-inch, three way with one four and one-
half-inch nozzle and two two and one-half-inch nozzles, six-inch shoe, and a
five and one-quarter-inch valve opening. Hydrants shall be compression type,
open against pressure, and close with pressure, with o-ring type construction.
Provide two positive barrel drain openings, self-oiling reservoir, non-kinking
nozzle cap chains. Provide one and one-half-inch pentagon operating nut, open
counterclockwise with arrow, and marking to indicate direction to open. Provide
factory-applied coatings on exterior and interior, red exterior;
      (3)   Hydrant valve shall open and close freely. When hydrant is closed,
it shall be bottle-tight to maintain dry barrel; and
      (4)   Provide a six-inch gate valve (auxiliary valve) and box on all six-
inch hydrant leads.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.190)
   (M)   Coated steel casing pipe.
      (1)   Steel casing pipe for encasement of water mains shall have inside
diameter at least two inches greater than outside diameter of water main
carrier pipe joint. Casing pipe wall thickness shall be not less than one-
quarter inch, or greater when required by the jurisdiction granting the permit
for installation of the casing pipe;
      (2)   Steel pipe shall comply with ASTM A 139, Grade B. Ends shall be
beveled for butt welding in accord with AWWA Standard C 200;
      (3)   Minimum length of casing pipe sections shall be not less than ten
feet; and
      (4)   On exterior of steel casing pipe, provide asphalt base coating,
Gilsonite-type, BB-99 black pipe coating having minimum 27% solids by volume,
at one and one-half to two mils dry film thickness (DFT), as manufactured by
Wool Chemical Company (St. Louis), Tnemac (Kansas City), or Valspar (Kankakee).
(1978 Code, § 16.32.200)
   (N)   Flexible couplings. Flexible couplings shall be suitable for joining
pipe materials as required, and shall be manufactured by Dresser, Rockwell, or
equal. Bolts shall be of noncorrodible materials at least equal to AWWA
Standard C 111. Furnish to the municipality’s Superintendent of Utilities two
affidavits of compliance, and mark name of sub division/development on
affidavits.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.210)
   (O)   Steel products. Steel products to be used or supplied for any
subdivision or development shall be manufactured or produced in the United
States, in accord with the state of Illinois Steel Products Procurement Act
(Public Act 83-1030), being 30 ILCS 565/1 et seq. This requirement shall apply
to all steel products, including iron pipe and fittings.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.220)
   (P)   Transportation, delivery, and handling.
      (1)   Handle products and materials by methods to prevent bending or
over-stressing. Lift items only at designated lifting points. Pipe shall be
delivered on wooden pallets with slings for lifting, in accord with
manufacturer’s recommendations. Prevent damage to products, materials, and
packaging. Provide protection during handling to prevent scraping, marring, or
otherwise damaging items or surrounding surface; and
      (2)   Store moisture- or water-vulnerable items above grade.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.230)
   (Q)   Installation and construction; general.
      (1)   At a minimum, installation and construction of water mains and
related facilities shall comply with the standard W&S specifications, and the
following supplemental requirements as set forth in divisions (R) through (AA)
below; and
      (2)   Construction of interconnect with municipality’s system shall not
commence until IEPA permit is delivered to Superintendent of Utilities. Pay all
costs for water main permit application.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.240)
   (R)   Installation and construction; depth of bury. Water mains shall have
minimum three and one-half feet of soil covering the top of pipe, and cover
shall not exceed six feet unless specifically authorized on the development
plans accepted by the municipality. (1978 Code, § 16.32.250)
   (S)   Installation and construction; operability.
      (1)   Valve boxes shall be installed in plumb position to assure that
valve can be operated with standard valve wrench;
      (2)   Fire hydrants shall be installed in plumb position with nozzles
facing street; and
      (3)   Install fire hydrants to comply with Illinois State Statutes,
Public Acts 85-0343 , being 425 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq. Fire hydrants shall be
installed to have discharge nozzles at least 14 inches, but not more than 26
inches, from the finished grade elevation from which the hydrant protrudes. No
object may be constructed, maintained, or installed within 48 inches of a fire
hydrant. Do not construct barriers, landscaping, or other obstacles which may
hide or impede the use of a fire hydrant.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.260)
   (T)   Installation and construction; pressure tests.
      (1)   Valves shall not be open between public water supply system and new
water mains which have not been satisfactorily pressure tested, disinfected,
bacteriologically tested, and flushed.
      (2)   Hydrostatic pressure test shall be performed using 120 psi minimum
test pressure, in accord with AWWA Standard C 600. For buried piping, minimum
test duration shall be not less than six hours while maintaining specified test
pressure. For exposed piping, minimum test duration shall be not less than two
hours while maintaining specified test pressure. Allowable leakage determined
under specified test pressure and test duration shall not exceed the amount
computed as follows.
 
   L = ND (P) 0.5
      7,400
   L = allowable leakage, gallons per hour
   N = number of joints in line being tested (include fittings)
   D = pipe diameter, inches
   P = specified test pressure, psi
 
      (3)   For duration of test, the pressure shall not vary by more than plus
or minus 5% from the specified test pressure.
      (4)   Water used for testing shall be of potable quality from the
municipality’s system.
      (5)   Pressure gauges for testing shall be calibrated and in good
condition, with four and one- half-inch dial face, compound graduated in feet,
and psi to cover specified test range. Provide snubber if required to obtain
accurate gauge readings.
      (6)   Provide necessary excavation, fittings, adapters, water meter,
connections, air release valves, and pumps to pressure test piping as
specified. Remove temporary facilities after satisfactory completion of test.
      (7)   If initial test fails, make necessary repairs and repeat test until
specified performance is achieved. Water added during test and at end of test
shall not exceed allowable leakage computed as specified herein.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.270)
   (U)   Installation and construction; sequence.
      (1)   Install piping system;
      (2)   Flush piping system to remove air and gases, by introducing water
at velocity less than one- half feet per second;
      (3)   Conduct pressure test in presence of Municipality’s Superintendent
of Utilities;
      (4)   (a)   Disinfect, using initial 50 mg/l chlorine dosage, with 24-
hour contact time, with minimum ten mg/l chlorine residual available at end of
24-hour contact time; and
         (b)   Expose all parts of new valves and hydrants to disinfectant
solution.
      (5)   Flush for duration required to remove water used for disinfection;
      (6)   Obtain bacteriological samples on two consecutive days, in accord
with IEPA requirements. Submit copies of test report to Superintendent of
Utilities; and
      (7)   The municipality will submit operating permit application.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.280)
   (V)   Installation and construction; flushing. Flushing shall be performed
with hydrant valve fully open, in manner to prevent damage to adjacent
property. Do not discharge to sanitary sewers. Operate valves and hydrants
slowly to avoid surges and water hammer.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.290)
   (W)   Installation and construction; disinfectant.
      (1)   Acceptable disinfectants are sodium hypochlorite and calcium
hypochlorite, both in liquid solution introduced with a metering pump. Tablet
method or use of chlorine gas is not permissible; and
      (2)   Disinfection of plastic (PVC) pipe shall be in accord with AWWA
Standard C 651.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.300)
   (X)   Installation and construction; thrust blocks.
      (1)    In addition to requirements specified in standard W&S
specifications, thrust blocks on ends of lines and capped tees shall be
installed in a manner to permit future connections.
      (2)   All piping and fittings shall be joined and restrained to totally
prevent separation and leakage under project service conditions.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.310)
   (Y)   Installation and construction; select granular backfill. Provide
gravel cradle and select granular backfill under streets, driveways, parking
areas, and other areas to be paved now or in the future. Mechanically compact
in maximum six-inch lifts, or water jet. Gravel cradle and select granular
backfill of areas to be paved.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.320)
   (Z)   Installation and construction; installation of water mains in casing
pipes.
      (1)   Install water main in steel casing pipes, installed by boring and
jacking or open cut as permitted by right-of-way owner having jurisdiction
(including, but not limited to, IDOT, county, townships, railroads, and the
like), where required by right-of-way owner;
      (2)   (a)   Obtain permit, in name of municipality, from jurisdictional
agency;
         (b)   Provide permit bonds as required by jurisdictional agency, and
comply with all permit requirements; and
         (b)   Furnish a copy of the permit to the Municipality’s
Superintendent of Streets prior to commencing construction, with name of
subdivision/development marked on permit.
      (3)   Casing pipes shall have end seals, using material which is
compatible with pipe materials and casing, but the seals shall not be water-
tight. Casing pipes shall be straight with no bends;
      (4)   Carrier pipe shall be supported with cradles or skids. Do not rest
carrier pipe bell joints or pipe on casing pipe. Skids or cradles for PVC pipe
shall be in accord with PVC Pipe Handbook, as published by Uni-Bell Plastic
Pipe Association, and as recommended by pipe manufacturer;
      (5)   Casing pipe joints shall be welded in accord with AWWA Standard C
206;
      (6)   Casing pipe adjacent to ditches and embankments shall extend beyond
the toe of slope, to a sufficient length determined by a two horizontal: one
vertical slope from the toe of slope to the top and end of the casing pipe, or
a greater length as may be required by the agency having jurisdiction; and
      (7)   Apply coating at welded joints, the same as specified for the
exterior coating of the steel casing pipe.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.330)
   (AA)   Installation and construction; record drawings.
      (1)   Record drawings shall be furnished to municipality within ten days
after new water mains and appurtenances are placed into service. If record
drawings are not provided within the specified time frame, the municipality
reserves the right to discontinue service until the drawings are received in
proper order.
      (2)   Record drawings shall be reproducible, good quality polyester film,
or Autocad diskette compatible with municipality’s computer system. Record
drawings shall include water main lengths, location of water main at maximum
100 feet intervals from back of curb or some other permanent surface object,
minimum three tie distances to each valve, distance from centerline of fire
hydrants to mains, and similar information to permanently record the location
of all facilities. Service line and water meter pit locations shall also be
identified.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.340)
   (BB)   Tap-on fees and service connections. The subdivider/developer shall
pay tap-on fees for water main services and provide service installations
(meters, service lines, and the like) as required by §
50.007(A).
(1978 Code, § 16.32.350)
(Ord. 96-12, passed - -1996)
§ 151.112 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Plans and specifications.
      (1)   Drawings for sanitary sewer improvements shall be prepared on 24-
inch by 36-inch sheets, to fit within the municipality’s filing system
facilities.
      (2)    Layout drawings shall include, but not be limited to, the
following minimum information:
         (a)   Name of subdivision or develop ment;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of subdivider/developer and
state registered professional engineer that prepared design documents;
         (c)   Date of submittal, with revision block to identify submittal
sequence of dates and purpose of submittal;
         (d)   North arrow (it is preferable that north be up or to the right);
         (e)   Scale (it is preferable that the scale of plan layout drawings
be one inch equals 50 feet, or an enlarged scale to more clearly show the
layout of the project; profile drawings shall utilize a horizontal scale of one
inch equals 50 feet and a vertical scale of one inch equals five feet, or
enlarged scales to more clearly show the layout of the project; other drawings
shall use a scale appropriate to clearly indicate details being shown);
         (f)   Layout of boundary, streets, lot lines, easements, with
dimensions;
         (g)   Horizontal and vertical location of other project utilities,
including, but not limited to, existing sanitary sewers with manholes and
appurtenances in project proximity, proposed sanitary sewers, wyes, laterals,
force mains, pump stations, manholes, cleanouts, and appurtenances, existing
and proposed water mains and related facilities, existing and proposed storm
sewers, existing and proposed gas mains, existing and proposed telephone lines,
existing and proposed electrical lines, and other utilities, pipelines, and
structures that will affect the improvement;
         (h)   Indicate horizontal and vertical clearances to be provided
between sanitary sewers and water mains and storm sewers, with protection
methods that may be required to comply with IEPA requirements and standards of
good practice;
         (i)   Signature and seal of state registered professional engineer
that prepared the documents, with date;
         (j)   Depths of sanitary sewers (in profile), with identification of
manhole rim and invert elevations;
         (k)   Identify materials to be used for sanitary sewers, service
lines, wyes, force mains, and related appurtenances;
         (l)   Identify size and length of individual sanitary sewer, service
line, and force mains;
         (m)   Identify size, capacity, existing connected load, and proposed
connected load at point of connection with existing sanitary sewer(s) that will
serve subdivision/development;
         (n)   Minimum sizes of sanitary sewers and force mains shall be
determined in accord with Illinois Recommended Standards for Sewage Works,
IEPA, edition current at time preliminary plat is filed, and shall have
adequate capacity to serve project;
         (o)   Minimum size of service sewers shall be six inches, and minimum
slope of service sewers shall be not less than 1%;
         (p)   1.   Pumping stations, if required to serve project, shall be
submersible type with duplex pumps (standard lag/lead arrangement alternating
in normal service). Include stationary standby generator driven by diesel
engine with automatic transfer switch, local alarm, and telephone dialer;
            2.   Manufacturer of pumps, generator, transfer switch, and dialer
shall comply with Superintendent of Utilities’ standardization policies.
Include separate valve vault containing gate valves for isolation, check
valves, internal or external gate valve to isolate valve vault and pumping
equipment from force main, and capped tee or wye branch to permit introduction
to polypig having same diameter as force main. Wet well and valve vault shall
be precast reinforced concrete;
            3.   In valve vault, provide sump and sump pump (with self-
contained float controls), double check valves and isolation well in manner to
not discharge onto floats. Covers for pump stations and valve vaults shall be
aluminum; and
            4.   Join piping between wet well and valve vault with external
flexible couplings installed on each individual line. Provide elapsed running
time meter in control panel with each pump, nonresettable type registering in
0.1-hour increments. Provide pressure gauges on each pump discharge line in
valve vault.
         (q)   Wet wells and valve vaults shall be designed and constructed so
as to prevent damage caused by flotation forces under all project conditions.
      (3)   (a)   Specifications (or special provisions) shall contain
sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with requirements of the
municipality’s standards, and other information as required to identify
specifications that apply to the required improvement.
         (b)   Specification documents shall be on eight and one-half by 11-
inch pages, bound into individual copies.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.360)
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   The engineer engaged by the subdivider/developer to prepare plans
and specifications shall prepare the IEPA permit application documents.
      (2)   If any special permits are required, such as for facilities
crossing highways, railroads, or property under jurisdiction of another agency,
they shall be obtained by the subdivider/developer, or its engineer.
      (3)   If permits are required from the State Department of Transportation
or Corps of Engineers, they shall be obtained by the subdivider/developer, or
its engineer.
      (4)   The subdivider/developer shall pay all applicable fees for permits.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.370)
   (C)   Reference specifications.
      (1)   Except where noted otherwise in this subchapter, the following
reference specifications shall apply.
      (2)   The edition current at time of preliminary plat filing shall
govern:
         (a)   AWWA Standards, American Water Works Association, 6666 W. Quincy
Avenue, Denver, Colorado 80235;
         (b)   ASTM, American Society for Testing Materials, 1916 Race Street
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103;
         (c)   ANSI, American National Standards Institute, 1430 Broadway New
York, New York 10018;
         (d)   IEPA, State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public
Water Supplies 2200 Churchill Road P.O. Box 19276 Springfield, Illinois 62794-
9276;
         (e)   All applicable regulations, including technical policy
statements and Recommended Standards for Sewage Works;
         (f)   Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois (referred to in this subchapter as standard W&S specifications);
         (g)   The State Plumbing Code, being Ill. Adm. Code 980; and
         (h)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, State
Department of Transportation (referred to in this subchapter as standard R&B
specifications).
(1978 Code, § 16.32.380)
   (D)   Sanitary and service sewers.
      (1)   PVC pipe for sanitary sewers shall be in accord with ASTM D 3034,
except that pipe shall have SDR 26 rating. Compression-type joints shall be
elastomeric gaskets in accord with ASTM D 3212, and gaskets shall be in accord
with ASTM F 477.
      (2)   Extra strength vitrified clay pipe (EXVCP) for sanitary sewers
shall be in accord with ASTM C 700. Joints shall be compression-type in accord
with ASTM C 425.
      (3)   Ductile iron pipe for sanitary sewers, including within limits of
excavation for pump stations and valve vaults, shall be Class 50 in accord with
specified requirements indicated §
151.111.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.390)
   (E)   Force mains.
      (1)   Force mains within pump station wet well and valve vault, and
within limits of excavation for pump station and valve vault shall be Class 50
ductile iron, in accord with specified requirements indicated in §
151.111.
      (2)   PVC pipe for force mains shall comply with ASTM D 2241, SDR 26, or
stronger. Joints shall be compression-type in accord with ASTM D 3139, and
gaskets shall be in accord with ASTM F 477.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.400)
   (F)   Ductile iron fittings for force mains. Ductile iron fittings shall be
in accord with specified requirements indicated in §
151.111 .
(1978 Code, § 16.32.410)
   (G)   Gate valves. Gate valves for pump station valve vaults shall be in
accord with specified requirements indicated in §
151.111 .
(1978 Code, § 16.32.420)
   (H)   Check valves. Check valves shall be in accord with AWWA Standard C
508, full waterway composition to metal seat, with side plugs and outside level
and weight.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.430)
   (I)   Manholes.
      (1)   Precast concrete manhole sections shall be in accord with ASTM C
478. Provide pipe openings in precast sections fitted with resilient seat
connectors in accord with ASTM C 923. Fit pipe size and material used for each
manhole;
      (2)   Cast or ductile iron frame and lid shall be in accord with § §
706.14 and 706.15 of standard R&B specifications. Lids shall have concealed
pick openings, self-sealing lid, and top of lid raised identification lettering
“SANITARY”. Manhole frames and lids shall be Neenah R 1772, or equal. Furnish
one lid lifter from each manufacturer of lids. Set frame in full mastic bed on
top of precast concrete manhole section;
      (3)   Manholes shall have minimum four-foot inside diameter;
      (4)   Joint seals shall be butyl rubber;
      (5)   Steps shall be installed at one-foot four inches on centers, with
top step within one foot of lid. Steps shall be polypropylene coated steel
reinforcing rods; and
      (6)   If flat top slabs are required, they shall be precast reinforced
concrete in accord with IDOT standards. Otherwise, use eccentric precast
reinforced concrete cones at upper sections.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.440)
   (J)   Gravel cradle. Gravel cradle shall be provided for all sanitary
sewers, and for force mains crossing beneath existing and proposed paved
surfaces. Material shall be in accord with standard W&S specifications, except
that maximum particle size shall not exceed one-half inch.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.450)
   (K)   Select granular backfill. Select granular backfill shall be provided
for trenches in areas where sanitary sewers and force mains cross beneath
existing and proposed paved surfaces. Material shall be in accord with standard
W&S specifications.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.460)
   (L)   Coasted steel casing pipes. Steel casing pipe for encasement of
sanitary sewers and/or force mains shall be in accord with specified
requirements indicated in §
151.111 .
(1978 Code, § 16.32.470)
   (M)   Flexible couplings. Flexible couplings shall be in accord with
specified requirements indicated in §
151.111.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.480)
   (N)   Steel products. Steel products shall be in accord with specified
requirements indicated in §
151.111 .
(1978 Code, § 16.32.490)
   (O)   Precast reinforced concrete for pump station wet wells and valve
vaults.
      (1)   Precast concrete shall be in accord with ASTM C 478, or ASTM C 857
and C 858. Precast supplier shall be approved for supplying precast items on
IDOT projects. Precast items shall comply with standard R&B specifications.
      (2)   Top and bottom slabs shall be reinforced to meet project structural
conditions.
      (3)   Joints shall be butyl rubber.
      (4)   Chamfer exposed top edges, three- fourths inch. Exposed surfaces
shall be of uniform broom finish, free from voids or discontinuities.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.500)
   (P)   Vents for wet wells and valve vaults. Vents shall be six-inch Class 50
ductile iron, consisting of two 90-degree elbows with outlet of vent turned
down. Mount 0.018-inch stainless steel wire screen between two bolted flanges
at termination of vent, using stainless steel bolts.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.510)
   (Q)   Pumps for sewage pump stations.
      (1)   Pumps shall be Flygt submersible pumps to meet standardization
policy of municipality.
      (2)   Motor shall be sized to be non- overloading over full range of pump
curve without encroaching on service factor.
      (3)   (a)   Pump performance curve, shop drawings, and operation and
maintenance manual shall be furnished to municipality’s Superintendent of
Sewers.
         (b)   The Municipal Engineer shall review pump performance curve, and
reserves right of final pump selection.
      (4)   Maximum speed shall not exceed 1,750 rpm.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.520)
   (R)   Sump pumps for sewage pump station valve vaults.
      (1)   Sump pumps shall be submersible type, having at least ten gpm
capacity at project total dynamic head condition. Include integral float switch
controls, rated NEMA 6.
      (2)   Provide strainer at entrance to impeller.
      (3)   Sump pump motor shall be fractional HP, electrically driven, and
plugged into a weather- proof GFI outlet within the valve vault.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.530)
   (S)   Pressure gauges for pump station valve vaults.
         (1)   Pressure gauges shall have a minimum of four and one-half-inch
diameter dial face, stainless steel case, compound graduated in feet, and psi
to fit project conditions in mid-range of gauge calibrations; and
         (2)   Connect gauges to pipes using corporation stop, reducer, and
brass gauge cock.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.540)
   (T)   Aluminum covers for pump station wet wells and valve vaults.
      (1)   Covers for wet wells and valve vaults shall be checker plate
aluminum, minimum one-fourth inch thickness. Aluminum extrusions shall be Alloy
6063-T5 and T6. Aluminum plates and rods shall be Alloy 6061-T6. Hinges and
brackets shall be malleable cast iron, cadmium, zinc, or nickel plated;
      (2)   Design and fabricate to support dead load and live load of at least
150 pounds per square foot;
      (3)   Include safety handle that locks itself in manner to maintain cover
in open position until manually released to lower;
      (4)   Include provisions for padlocking, in manner which will not allow
freezing of locking device, using materials constructed of stainless steel or
aluminum; and
      (5)   Cast covers into top slabs of wet wells and valve vaults.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.550)
   (U)   Guide rails for submersible pumps. Guide rails shall be Schedule 40
steel pipe, ASTM A 53. Hot dipped galvanized in accord with ASTM A 385 and A
386.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.560)
   (V)   Portable pump hoists and supports for pumping-stations.
      (1)   Lifting chains shall be designated by pump manufacturer to
withstand superimposed loads with minimum safety factor at least two times the
lifting requirement. Minimum capacity for hoists shall be not less than 1,000
pounds;
      (2)   Hoist shall be of design and configuration to maintain minimum six-
foot clearance from top of wet well to bottom of hoist hood;
      (3)   Include suitable chain block, with corrosion resistant coating; and
      (4)   Cast portable hoist support into top slab of wet well, and provide
a portable hoist as recommended by the pump manufacturer for lifting the pumps
and motors out of the wet well.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.570)
   (W)   Pumping station fence enclosure and access.
      (1)   Each sewage pumping station, with related equipment, shall be
enclosed within a fenced area, with pedestrian and vehicle gate to permit
ingress and egress by the municipality for purposes of operation and
maintenance. Gates shall be suitable for padlocking, and the municipality will
furnish its own master keyed locking devices after the municipality has
accepted the pumping station.
      (2)   The pumping station site shall be furnished with an access driveway
suitable for vehicular access and parking, without encroaching onto street
right-of-way. The access driveway shall consist of eight inches of compacted CA
6 with an A-3 bituminous surfacing overlay, complying with street improvement
requirements set forth in §
151.113.
      (3)   The fence shall be at least eight feet in height. Preference will
be given to treated timber fences for appearance considerations, but in no case
shall the fence be of less quality than chain link in accord with IDOT
standards with aluminum filler strips to present an opaque appearance.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.580)
   (X)   Air release valves.
      (1)   Automatic air release valves, in minimum four feet inside diameter
precast concrete vaults with ductile or cast iron frame and lid, at all high
points on force mains shall be provided. Furnish backflushing equipment to the
municipality’s Superintendent of Utilities; and
      (2)   Precast concrete vaults and castings shall comply with specified
requirements for manholes contained in this subchapter.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.590)
   (Y)   Transportation, delivery and handling. Comply with specified
requirements indicated in §
151.111.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.600)
   (Z)   Installation and construction; general. At a minimum, installation and
construction of sanitary sewers, service sewers, force mains, pump stations,
and related facilities shall comply with the Standard W&S specifications,
Illinois Recommended Standards for Sewage Works, and the supplemental
requirements set forth in this division (Z) through divisions (DD) below.
Construction of interconnect with the municipality’s system shall not be
commenced until the IEPA permit is delivered to Superintendent of Utilities.
Pay all costs for permit application.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.610)
   (AA)   Installation and construction; depth of bury. 
      (1)   Sanitary sewers, service sewers, and force mains shall have minimum
three and one-half feet of dirt covering the top of pipe.
      (2)   Cover over top of force mains shall not exceed six feet unless
specifically authorized on the development plans accepted by the municipality.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.620)
   (BB)   Installation and construction; tests for sanitary sewers.
      (1)   Leakage tests.
         (a)   Water leakage outward or inward (exfiltration or infiltration)
shall not exceed the following limits in gallons per inch diameter per mile per
day for any section of the system:
            1.   Exfiltration: 240; and
            2.   Infiltration: 200.
         (b)   Perform exfiltration or infiltration tests with minimum positive
head of two feet of water column over highest end of section being tested; and
         (c)   If air testing is used, conduct air testing in accord with ASTM
C 828. The testing methods shall take into consideration the range in
groundwater elevations projected and conditions during test.
      (2)   Deflection tests for flexible conduits.
         (a)   On all sections of sanitary sewers using flexible conduits, such
as PVC, perform deflection test in accord with ASTM D 3034. Perform tests
without using mechanical pulling devices. Test individual lines no sooner than
30 days after they have been installed. Initiate testing at downstream end of
lines and proceed towards upstream end. No pipe shall exceed a deflection of
5%; and
         (b)   Where deflection is found to be in excess of 5% of the original
pipe diameter, excavate to point of excess deflection and carefully compact at
point of excess deflection. Then, retest for deflection. If after the initial
testing the deflected pipe fails to return to original size (inside diameter)
within 5% limits, replace the line.
      (3)   Cleaning lines. Before placing the sanitary sewers into service,
and prior to acceptance by the municipality, lines shall be cleaned with sewer
ball or polypig having diameter equal to at least 98% of pipe diameter.
      (4)   Cleaning manholes. The inverts of all manholes shall be cleaned to
broom-clean condition, prior to placing the sanitary sewers into service, and
prior to acceptance by the municipality.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.630)
   (CC)   Installation and construction; leakage tests for force mains.
Hydrostatic tests shall be provided using minimum 50 psi pressure, or two times
the maximum working pressure, whichever is greater. Pressure tests for force
mains shall be in accordance with specified requirements indicated in §
151.111.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.640)
   (DD)   Installation and construction start-up of pumping stations.
      (1)   Bearings and equipment shall be lubricated in accord with
manufacturer’s instructions;
      (2)   Check each motor for amperage comparison to nameplate value, and
record value in presence of the municipality’s Superintendent of Utilities;
      (3)   The manufacturer of the pumps, controls, standby generator, and
related equipment shall furnish at least eight consecutive hours of operation
and maintenance instructions to the Superintendent of Utilities before placing
pumping stations into service. The minimum period of instruction to the
municipality’s personnel shall be in addition to any installation instructions
given to the installing contractor; and
      (4)   Furnish the municipality’s Superintendent of Utilities at least two
copies of operation and maintenance manuals prepared by the equipment
manufacturers, prior to placing the pumping station into service.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.650)
   (EE)   Tap-on fees and service connections.
      (1)   The subdivider/developer shall pay tap- on fees for sanitary sewer
service, and provide installation as required by §§
50.007(A) and
50.070;
      (2)   Provide risers to within seven feet of finished ground elevation,
and extend service laterals to property line of five feet beyond centerline of
sanitary sewer, whichever distance is greater. Note: If risers are located
within seven feet of finished ground elevation, no basement could be serviced
by gravity flow by this service line; and
      (3)   (a)   Record location of all wyes, risers, and service sewer
connections, to nearest one foot, by measuring from center-line of nearest
downstream manhole lid.
         (b)   Furnish measurements with record drawings for improvements to
the municipality’s Superintendent of Utilities.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.660)
   (FF)   Private sewage disposal systems.
      (1)   (a)   The municipality’s policy is to discourage use of private
sewage disposal systems and to encourage connection to the public sanitary
sewer system.
         (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider/developer to
extend existing public sanitary sewer facilities to the subdivision or
development if an existing system is within 1,000 feet of the subdivision or
development.
      (2)   If a public sanitary sewer system is not available and within 1,000
feet of the subdivision or development for service to the subdivision or
development, the municipality may either require the subdivider/developer to
extend the public sanitary sewer to the subdivision or development, or the
municipality may accept the use of private sewage disposal systems only for
residential areas.
      (3)   (a)   Private sewage disposal systems, if allowed, shall comply
with the requirements of the State Department of Public Health and the County
Health Department, and the minimum lot size shall be not less than one and one-
half acres.
         (b)   The development plans for private sewage disposal systems shall
indicate the location of the facilities.
         (c)   Any surface discharge of sewage treated with private disposal
systems shall be clearly identified, on the development plans, and the
subdivider/developer shall furnish evidence of permission to make such surface
discharge.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.670)
(Ord. 96-12, passed - -1996)
§ 151.113 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Plans and specifications.
      (1)   Drawings for street improvements shall be prepared on 24-inch by
36-inch sheets, to fit with the municipality’s filing system facilities.
      (2)   Layout drawings shall include, but not be limited to, the following
minimum information:
         (a)   Name of subdivision or development;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of subdivider/developer and
state registered professional engineer that prepared design documents;
         (c)   Date of submittal, with revision block to identify submittal
sequence of dates and purpose of submittal;
         (d)   North arrow (it is preferable that north be up or to the right);
         (e)   Scale (it is preferable that the scale of plan layout drawings
be one inch equals 50 feet or an enlarged scale to more clearly show the layout
of the project; profile drawings shall utilize a horizontal scale of one inch
equals 50 feet and a vertical scale of one inch equals five feet, or enlarged
scale to more clearly show the layout of the project; other drawings shall use
a scale appropriate to clearly indicate details being shown);
         (f)   Layout dimensions of the streets, indicating right-of-way width,
pavement width, face to face of curb width, and sidewalk widths and locations;
         (g)   Location of storm drainage facilities to be constructed along
and/or across the street, with horizontal location and vertical elevations
indicated;
         (h)   Location of other utilities and structures which will affect the
design and construction of streets and storm drainage facilities. Indicate
horizontal and vertical clearances where utility lines cross each other and
storm sewers;
         (i)   Signature and seal of state registered professional engineer
that prepared the documents, with date;
         (j)   Typical cross-section of pavements to be constructed, including
identification of critical dimensions, pavement slopes, pavement materials and
thicknesses, sidewalk thicknesses, and slopes;
         (k)   Vertical alignment of street profile, including tangent slopes,
stations, and elevations of PVI, PC, and PT on tangent and vertical curves,
length of vertical curves. Horizontal location and elevation of low point on
sag vertical curves; and
         (l)   Elevations at ends of existing pavement to be connected to, with
direction and percent slope indicated on existing pavement with 200 feet of the
connection point.
      (3)   (a)   Specifications (or special provisions) shall contain
sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with requirements of the
municipality’s standards, and other information as required to identify the
specifications that apply to the required improvement.
         (b)   Specification documents shall be on eight and one-half by 11-
inch pages, bound into individual copies.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.680)
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   The engineer engaged by the sub divider/developer to prepare plans
and specifications shall prepare all necessary permit application documents
applicable to the project.
      (2)   (a)   If permits are required to connect to existing roads under
jurisdiction of other agencies (including, but not limited to, state, county,
township), they shall be obtained by the sub divider/developer or its engineer.
         (b)   A preliminary plat shall accompany the permit applications for
entrances to public roads in accord with applicable statutes.
      (3)   If permits are required to comply with environmental and other
regulations through the State Department of Transportation or Corps of
Engineers, they shall be obtained by the subdivider/developer, or its engineer.
      (4)   The subdivider/developer shall pay all applicable fees for permits.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.690)
   (C)   Minimum design requirements; reference documents.
      (1)   Except where noted otherwise herein, the following reference
specifications and standards shall apply.
      (2)   The edition current at time of preliminary plat filing shall
govern:
         (a)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, and
addenda thereto, State Department of Transportation (referred to in this
subchapter as standard R&B specifications);
         (b)   Highway Standards, State Department of Transportation (referred
to in this subchapter as R&B Standards);
         (c)   Design Manual, State Department of Transportation (referred to
in this subchapter as R&B Design Manual); and
         (d)   Culvert Manual, State Department of Transportation (referred to
in this subchapter as R&B Culvert Manual).
(1978 Code, § 16.32.700)
   (D)   Minimum design requirements; right-of-way and pavement width.
      (1)   Right-of-way and pavement width shall be as indicated on the
following table for the respective types of zoning districts indicated and more
specifically defined in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
Zoning District Classification Minimum Right-of-Way Minimum Pavement Width
Zoning District Classification Minimum Right-of-Way Minimum Pavement Width
Business/Commercial
Arterial streets               80 feet              44 feet F-F
Collector or local streets     70 feet              40 feet F-F
Industrial
Arterial streets               80 feet              44 feet F-F
Collector or local streets     70 feet              40 feet F-F
Residential
Arterial streets               66 feet              40 feet F-F
Collector or local streets     60 feet              36 feet F-F
F-F denotes fact to fact curbs
 
      (2)   Where temporary stub streets are terminated to allow for future
extension to an adjacent property not within the subdivision or development
boundary, a surfaced area having minimum 42-foot radius shall be provided. Cul-
de-sacs shall have minimum right-of-way radius not less than 54 feet and
minimum face of curb radius not less than 42 feet. Alleys, where permitted,
shall have minimum 20-foot right-of-way width and minimum 18-foot pavement
width.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.710)
   (E)   Minimum design requirements; horizontal alignment.
      (1)   Simple horizontal curves are permissible, with maximum 250-foot
centerline radius; and
      (2)   If reverse curves are used, each shall have maximum 250-foot
centerline radius, and the minimum tangent distance between the PT and PC of
curves shall be not less than 100 feet.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.720)
   (F)   Minimum design requirements; intersection turning radii.
      (1)   The minimum face of curb radii shall be not less than indicated on
the following table for the respective types of zoning districts indicated and
more specifically defined in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
Zoning District Classification Minimum Radius, Face of Curb
Zoning District Classification     Minimum Radius, Face of Curb
Business/Commercial and Industrial
   Alleys                       15 feet
   Arterial streets             40 feet
   Collector or local streets   40 feet (three center curves recommended)
Residential
   Aerial                       40 feet
   Collector or local streets   25 feet
 
      (2)   Where required by the county, state or other jurisdictional agency,
the subdivider/developer shall furnish an intersection design study to meet
acceptance of the jurisdictional agency.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.730)
   (G)   Minimum design requirements; vertical alignment.
      (1)   Longitudinal, pavement, and curb and gutter slopes shall be not
less than 0.5%, or more than 8%.
      (2)   At changes in vertical alignment, provide parabolic vertical curve
having minimum length of 100 feet, unless speed and sight distance requirements
for arterial streets require longer vertical curves.
      (3)   Where cul-de-sacs are used, the minimum slope around the perimeter
of the paved area shall be not less than 0.5%.
      (4)   (a)   Intersections shall be designed with flat gradient where
practical, while maintaining minimum one-fourth inch per foot slope on pavement
surface to accommodate surface drainage.
         (b)   In hilly terrain, an area having not greater than 2% slope for a
distance of at least 60 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street shall be provided at the approach to an intersection.
      (5)   The cross slopes on all streets, including intersections shall not
exceed 3%.
      (6)   (a)   Due consideration shall be given to topography, drainage, and
the grading plan for the development.
         (b)   It is desired that vertical alignment for streets generally
follow existing terrain.
         (c)   1.   Do not change drainage patterns, divert drainage, or
increase the tributary drainage area from that which existed prior to the
development.
            2.   It is desired that the top of curb elevation be at least one
and one-half feet below building floor elevations wherever practical.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.740)
   (H)   Minimum design requirements; pavement slopes. Transverse pavement
slopes shall be five- sixteenths inch per foot for concrete and asphalt
pavements, and three-eighths-inch per foot for oil and chip pavements.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.750)
   (I)   Minimum design requirements; subgrade base preparation. All subgrade
bases shall achieve and pass 95% compaction tests.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.760)
   (J)   Minimum design requirements; pavement materials and thicknesses.
      (1)    Pavement materials shall be in accord with standard R&B
specifications, with minimum thicknesses as indicated on the following table
for the respective types of zoning districts indicated and more specifically
defined in the
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
 
Zoning District            Minimum Pavement of Thickness
Commercial and Industrial
Arterial streets           Same as collector
Collector or local streets 8 inches PCC concrete over 6 inches of compacted
                           aggregate base course, Type B
Residential
Aerial streets             8 inches of compacted to 95% aggregate base course,
                           Type B, with A-3 bituminous surface course 25 feet
Collector or local streets 8 inches of compacted to 95% aggregate base course,
                           Type B, with A-3 bituminous surface course 25 feet
 
      (2)   The foregoing minimum concrete pavement thicknesses are based on
use of nonreinforced concrete pavement.
      (3)   (a)   Where temporary stub streets are terminated to allow for
future extension to an adjacent property not within the subdivision or
development boundary, the permanent surfacing shall extend to the maximum
distance to join with a temporary cul-de-sac having minimum surfaced radius of
42 feet.
         (b)   The temporary turn-around area shall be paved with a minimum of
eight inches of aggregate base course Type B surfaced with a minimum two-inch
thickness of asphaltic road mix, all in accord with the standard R&B
specifications.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.770)
   (K)   Minimum design requirements; curbs and gutters.
      (1)   All streets shall have curbs and gutters on each side.
      (2)   Curbs and gutters shall be mountable type as specified by the City
Street Department.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.780)
   (L)   Minimum design requirements; sidewalks.
      (1)   Concrete sidewalks shall be provided as indicated in this
subchapter. Along arterial streets only, concrete sidewalks shall be provided
on at least one side of the arterial streets. Concrete shall be in accord with
the standard R&B specifications.
      (2)   Sidewalk shall be minimum four-inch thickness, except minimum six-
inch thickness shall be used where the sidewalk passes across driveways and
entrances.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall have the outer edge one foot, plus or minus two
inches, from the right-of-way line of the streets.
      (4)   (a)   Sidewalks shall have cross slope of one-fourth inch per foot,
towards the pavement.
         (b)   Sidewalk longitudinal slopes shall match the slopes of the
adjacent pavement to the maximum practical extent.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.790)
   (M)   Minimum design requirements; driveway entrances on public right-of-
way.
      (1)   Driveway entrances on public right-of- way shall have minimum
widths, at the front edge of the sidewalk, as indicated on the following table
for the respective types of zoning districts indicated and more specifically
described in
Chapter 152 of this code or ordinances.
 
Zoning District Classification Minimum Width Minimum Radius(a)
Commercial and Industrial      30 feet       20 feet
Residential                    12 feet       10 feet
(a) Radius is to face of curb, beginning at juncture with pavement curb.
 
      (2)   The driveway entrance pavement shall have slope not less than 1% or
greater than 8%, and shall be minimum six-inch thick PCC pavement, and shall
extend from the curb line to the property line.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.800)
   (N)   Minimum design requirements; construction, contraction and expansion
joints.
      (1)   Pavement construction, contraction, and expansion joints shall
comply with the R&B standards. Neat and uniform finish shall be provided at all
joints;
      (2)   Concrete pavement construction joints shall include No. 4 dowel
bars at maximum two-foot six-inch spacing;
      (3)   Provide sawed contraction joints across pavement, including curb
and gutter, at maximum 20- foot spacing. On pavement, diagonal pattern is
recommended to minimize tire noise from vehicular traffic. All sawed
contraction joints shall be filled with an appropriate joint filler, after
thoroughly cleaning the joints to remove deleterious material. Omit sawed
joints for pavements constructed of aggregate base course and bituminous
surfacing, but provide joints for concrete curb and gutter as indicated herein;
      (4)   Join concrete pavement to curb and gutter with No. 4 dowel bars at
maximum two-foot six-inch spacing;
      (5)   Provide expansion joint in concrete pavements, curb and gutter, and
sidewalks at maximum 100-foot spacing. Fill joint with pre-molded joint filler
depressed one-half inch, and seal top of joint with an appropriate joint
filler. A similar expansion joint shall be provided at the juncture of entrance
driveway pavements with the adjacent depressed curb and with the adjacent
sidewalk;
      (6)   Provide tooled contraction joints in concrete sidewalks, inlets at
maximum five-foot spacing. Tool all exposed edges of sidewalks; and
      (7)   Indicate all jointing patterns, locations and details on
development plans or by reference to the appropriate R&B standards. Give
special attention to jointing pattern and spacing at intersections, cul-de-
sacs, and other non-uniform pavement sections.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.810)
   (O)   Materials; generally. All materials shall comply with the standard R&B
specifications.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.820)
   (P)   Maintenance; steel products. Steel products shall be in accord with
specified requirements indicated in §
151.111.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.830)
   (Q)   Installation and construction; general. All installation and
construction shall be in accord with the standard R&B specifications.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.840)
   (R)   Installation and construction; record drawings.
      (1)   Record drawings shall be furnished to the municipality within ten
days after new streets are placed into service and prior to issuance of any
building permit in the subdivision or development.
      (2)   Record drawings shall be reproducible, good quality polyester film,
or Autocad diskette compatible with the municipality’s computer system. Record
drawings shall reflect as-constructed conditions for all street improvements.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.850)
(Ord. 96-12, passed - -1996)
§ 151.114 STORM DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)    Plans and specifications.
      (1)   Drawings for storm drainage improvements shall be prepared on 24-
inch by 36-inch sheets, to fit within the municipality’s filing system
facilities.
      (2)   Layout drawings and profiles for storm drainage improvements may be
incorporated with the street improvement drawings, but in all cases they shall
include but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   Name of subdivision or development;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of subdivider/developer and
state registered professional engineer that prepared the design documents;
         (c)   Date of submittal, with revision block to identify submittal
sequence of dates and purpose of submittal;
         (d)   North arrow (it is preferable that north be up or to the right);
         (e)   Scale (it is preferable that the scale of plan layout drawings
be one inch equals 50 feet, or enlarged scale to more clearly show the layout
of the project; it is preferable that the scale of profile drawings be one inch
equals 50 feet horizontal and one inch equals five feet vertical, or enlarged
scale to more clearly show the layout of the project; other drawings shall use
a scale appropriate to clearly indicate the details being shown);
         (f)   Layout dimensions indicating horizontal and vertical elevation
location of all drainage improvements, including indication of spatial
relationship to other improvements. Indicate slopes of sewers, culverts, and
drainageways, and rim and invert elevations of all manholes, catch basins,
inlets, and associated structures;
         (g)   Location of other utilities and structures that will affect
design and construction of storm drainage facilities. Indicate horizontal and
vertical clearances where utility lines cross each other and storm sewers; and
         (h)   Signature and seal of state registered professional engineer
that prepared the documents, with date.
      (3)   (a)   Specifications (or special provisions) shall contain
sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with requirements of the
municipality’s standards and other information as required to identify the
specifications that apply to the required improvement.
         (b)   Specification documents shall be on eight and one-half by 11-
inch pages, bound into individual copies.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.860)
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   The engineer engaged by the sub divider/developer to prepare plans
and specifications shall prepare all necessary permit application documents
applicable the project.
      (2)   If permits are required to connect to storm drainage facilities
under jurisdiction of other agencies (including, but not limited to, state,
county, township, drainage district, or other municipality), they shall be
obtained by the subdivider/developer or its engineer.
      (3)   If permits are required to comply with environmental and other
regulations through the State Department of Transportation, Corps of Engineers,
or Environmental Protection Agency, they shall be obtained by the subdivider/
developer or its engineer. Give special attention to requirements for projects
adjacent to flood plains, wetlands, and any other areas governed by
regulations.
      (4)   The subdivider/developer shall pay all applicable fees for permits.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.870)
   (C)   Reference specifications and documents.
      (1)   Generally. Except where noted otherwise in this subchapter, the
following reference specifications, standards, and documents shall apply. The
edition current at the time of preliminary plat filing govern.
      (2)   Reference documents.
         (a)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, and
addenda thereto, State Department of Transportation (referred to as standard
R&B specifications);
         (b)   Highway Standards, State Department of Transportation (referred
to in this subchapter as R&B standards);
         (c)   Design Manual, State Department of Transportation (referred to
in this subchapter as R&B Design Manual);
         (d)   Culvert Manual, State Department of Transportation (referred to
in this subchapter as R&B Culvert Manual);
         (e)   Drainage Manual, State Department of Transportation (referred to
in this subchapter as R&B Drainage Manual); and
         (f)   Frequency Distributions of Heavy Rainstorms in Illinois,
Circular 172, Huff, Floyd A. and Angel, James R., State Department of Energy
and Natural Resources, State Water Survey (referred to in this subchapter as
Circular 172).
(1978 Code, § 16.32.880)
   (D)   Minimum design requirements; general.
      (1)   Minimum design requirements set forth in this section shall not be
construed as relieving the subdivider/developer of any legal responsibility for
downstream or upstream stormwater damages inflicted by runoff or backup of
stormwater from the subdivision or development.
      (2)   All storm sewers, culverts, and conveyance facilities shall be
sized on the basis of either the Rational Method, the SCS Method, or both.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.890)
   (E)   Minimum design requirements; design report.
      (1)   The subdivider/developer’s engineer shall prepare and submit a
drainage design report to the municipality in conjunction with submittal of the
development plans for required drainage improvements.
      (2)   The design report shall include, but not be limited to, the
following information:
         (a)   Name of subdivision or development;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of subdivider/developer and
state registered professional engineer that prepared the report;
         (c)   Date of submittal, with revision block to identify submittal
sequence of dates and purpose of submittal;
         (d)   Layout of the subdivision or development and contiguous areas in
the affected drainage basin, showing tributary areas (expressed in acres or
square feet) of individual drainage basins, contours, and elevations in
sufficient detail to identify terrain slopes, design flows expressed in CFS,
pipe sizes with slopes, and carrying capacity expressed in CFS;
         (e)   Supporting engineering calculations to indicate methodology
employed in computing storm water flows and conveyance system capacities,
including inlet capacities;
         (f)    List of technical references used for calculations and design
of storm drainage facilities, including detention and outlet facilities for
stormwater management purposes; and
         (g)   Signature and seal of state registered professional engineer
that prepared the report, with date.
      (3)   Storm sewers shall be provided on both sides of the right-of-way in
order to accommodate the sump pump discharge of subsurface groundwater. This
groundwater is not acceptable on city curbs. Alternative methods could be
acceptable.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.900)
   (F)   Minimum design requirements; rainfall intensity. Rainfall intensity
shall be based on the Frequency Relations for Madison County, Adjusted for St.
Louis Urban Effect, contained in Circular 172.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.910)
   (G)   Minimum design requirements; time of concentration. The time of
concentration shall be identified at critical locations.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.920)
   (H)   Minimum design requirements; design storm recurrence interval.
      (1)   New stormwater conveyance facilities shall be designed and
constructed with sufficient open channel capacity to transport stormwater
runoff (without surcharging) discharged during a ten-year storm recurrence
interval in residential areas and during a 25-year storm in commercial and
industrial areas, as a minimum;
      (2)   Give due consideration to the 100-year storm recurrence interval
where necessary to assure that damage will not occur in the subdivision or
development and in the upstream and downstream areas adjacent to the
subdivision or development; and
      (3)   Do not obstruct flow from upstream areas, and do not increase rate
of runoff onto downstream areas.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.930)
   (I)   Minimum design requirements; stormwater detention facilities.
      (1)   The rate of stormwater runoff leaving the subdivision or
development shall not substantially exceed the flow rate that would have
occurred under natural, undeveloped conditions, if it appears that existing or
potential downstream developments would be damaged by a greater/faster flow.
      (2)   (a)   Where required to limit the rate of flow, the subdivider/
developer shall provide stormwater detention facilities to meet the
requirements set forth in this subchapter.
         (b)   The design of the stormwater detention and outlet facilities
shall be in accord with the R&B Drainage Manual. The design report required by
these standards shall address stormwater management to properly control runoff
of stormwater.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.940)
   (J)   Materials; precast concrete items.
      (1)   All manholes, catch basins, and inlets shall be of precast concrete
construction, in accord with standard R&B specifications and R&B standards.
      (2)   Precast concrete supplier shall be approved by IDOT.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.950)
   (K)   Materials; pipe.
      (1)   Pipe for storm sewers and culverts shall be reinforced concrete in
accord with standard R&B specifications.
      (2)   Minimum size of storm sewer or culvert shall be not less than 12
inches.
      (3)   Use of arch or elliptical pipe is permissible if required to
provide clearance and necessary depth of cover over top of pipe.
      (4)   Where storm sewers and culverts discharge to open drainageway,
provide precast concrete end sections in accord with standard specifications
for R&B and R&B standards.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.960)
   (L)   Materials; frames and grates.
      (1)   Ductile or cast iron frames and grates for manholes, catch basins,
and inlets shall comply with the standard R&B specifications and R&B standards,
and shall meet the acceptance of the municipality’s Superintendent of Streets;
      (2)   Open grates shall be of a pattern and design recommended for
bicycle traffic;
      (3)   Provide sufficient grate open area, with single or multiple inlet
points, to allow entry of design storm flow into storm sewer without creating
excessive ponding conditions; and
      (4)   Set frames and grates on full mastic bed.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.970)
   (M)   Installation and construction; general. Installation and construction
shall be in accord with standard R&B specifications.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.980)
   (N)   Installation and construction; record drawings.
      (1)   Record drawings shall be furnished to the municipality within ten
days after new stormwater facilities are accepted and placed into service, and
prior to issuance of any building permits in the subdivision or development.
      (2)   Record drawings shall be reproducible, good quality polyester film,
or Autocad diskette compatible with the municipality’s computer system. Record
drawings shall include sizes, lengths, and horizontal and vertical locations
(elevations) of all facilities to accurately reflect as-constructed conditions.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.990)
(Ord. 96-12, passed - -1996)
§ 151.115 GRADING AND LANDSCAPING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Plans and specifications.
      (1)   Drawings for grading and landscaping improvements shall be prepared
on 24-inch by 36-inch sheets, to fit within the municipality’s filing system
facilities.
      (2)   Layout drawings shall include, but not be limited to, the following
minimum information:
         (a)   Name of subdivision or development;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of subdivider/developer and
state registered professional engineer that prepared design documents;
         (c)   Date of submittal, with revision block to identify submittal
sequence of dates and purpose of submittal;
         (d)   North arrow (it is preferable that north be up or to the right);
         (e)   Scale (it is preferable that the scale of plan layout drawings
be one inch equals 50 feet, or an enlarged scale to more clearly show the
layout of the project; other drawings shall use a scale appropriate to clearly
indicate details being shown);
         (f)   Layout of boundary, streets, lot lines, easements, with
dimensions;
         (g)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided or developed as
indicated by one-foot contour data for land having slopes of 0.0% to 4%, two-
foot contour data for land having slopes four to 12%, and five-foot contour
data for land having slopes of 12% or more;
         (h)   Finish grades (elevations and/or contour data) to clearly
indicate the final horizontal and vertical relationship between streets,
drainage ways, and building sites. Include sufficient information to
demonstrate that proper drainage will be provided in and around the building
sites; and
         (i)   Indicate methods and materials for erosion and sedimentation
control.
      (3)   (a)   Specifications (or special provisions) shall contain
sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with requirements of the
municipality’s standards, and other information required to identify
specifications that apply to the required improvement.
         (b)   Specification documents shall be on eight and one-half by 11-
inch pages, bound into individual copies.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1000)
   (B)   Minimum design and construction considerations; open drainageways.
      (1)   Open drainageways shall include provisions for adequate measures
(seeding, sodding, riprap, paving, and the like) to prevent erosion of ditch
banks.
      (2)   The existing natural drainage system shall be used as far as
reasonable and feasible for the storage and flow of runoff, but no existing
drainageway shall be deepened, widened, filled, or rerouted in a manner which
would constitute a diversion of natural drainage patterns or increase the rate
of runoff onto downstream property.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1010)
   (C)   Minimum design and construction considerations; soil erosion and
sediment control. Design and construct all grading and improvement operations
in a manner to comply with the Standard Specifications for Soil Erosion and
Sediment Control, IEPA, edition current at time of preliminary plat filing.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1020)
   (D)   Minimum design and construction considerations; subgrade.
      (1)   (a)   Before grading is started, the entire area shall be cleared
of all tree stumps, roots, brush, and other objectionable materials and of all
trees not intended for preservation.
         (b)   Subsequently, the subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled, and
uniformly compacted to provide an adequate subgrade and foundation for the
intended use.
      (2)   In cuts, all tree stumps, boulders, and other unsuitable material
shall be removed to a depth of at least two feet below the finish grade
surface. (1978 Code, § 16.32.1030)
   (E)   Minimum design and construction considerations; tree preservation.
Existing vegetation, particularly trees having a diameter of four inches or
more when measured 12 inches above the ground, shall be retained and protected
to the maximum extent consistent with development of the site.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1040)
   (F)   Minimum design and construction considerations; record drawings.
      (1)   Record drawings shall be furnished to the municipality within ten
days after the streets have been placed into service and prior to issuance of
any building permit in the subdivision or development.
      (2)   Record drawings shall be reproducible, good quality polyester film,
or Autocad diskette compatible with municipality’s computer system. (1978 Code,
§ 16.32.1050)
(Ord. 96-12, passed - -)
§ 151.116 MISCELLANEOUS UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Rights-of-way.
      (1)   The subdivider/developer and/or its engineer, shall coordinate with
utility companies providing services to the development, and shall furnish
adequate easements and rights-of-way to accommodate municipal utilities (water
and sanitary sewers), drainage facilities, and all other utilities including,
but not limited to, telephone, electrical, natural gas, and cable television.
      (2)   (a)   Utility easements dedicated on the final plat shall clearly
identify the easement rights being granted, and utility easements shall be
nonexclusive unless required otherwise by utility owner.
         (b)   If the utility owner requires exclusive easements and rights-of-
way, they shall be granted in a manner to not interfere with other utility
requirements of the subdivision or development.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1060)
   (B)   Telephones.
      (1)   Locate junction boxes and related facilities in a manner to not
obstruct ingress and egress or visual sight lines for traffic on streets within
the subdivision or development.
      (2)   To the extent of a conflict between this subchapter and the
pertinent utility franchise agreement, the more stringent requirement shall
apply.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1070)
   (C)   Electrical.
      (1)   Locate transformers and related facilities in a manner so as not to
obstruct ingress and egress or visual sight lines for traffic on streets within
the subdivision or development;
      (2)   Provide streetlights as required by this subchapter; and
      (3)   To the extent of a conflict between this subchapter and the
pertinent utility franchise agreement, the more stringent requirement shall
apply.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1080)
   (D)   Natural gas. The location of underground natural gas mains shall be
coordinated by the subdivider/developer or its engineer in a manner to
accommodate installation of natural gas service within the subdivision or
development, without conflicting with other utilities.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1090)
   (E)   Cable television.
      (1)   All cable TV lines intended to serve customers shall be located in
a manner to not obstruct ingress and egress or visual sight lines on streets
within the subdivision or development.
      (2)   To the extent of a conflict between this subchapter and the
pertinent utility franchise agreement, the more stringent requirement shall
apply.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1100)
(Ord. 96-12, passed - - 1996)
§ 151.117 MISCELLANEOUS IMPROVEMENTS.
   Street signs shall be purchased for the subdivider/developer by the
municipality, in order to assure uniformity in signage within the municipality.
The city shall cause the signage to be installed.
(1978 Code, § 16.32.1110) (Ord. 96-12, passed - - 1996)
VACATION, VARIANCES, AND AMENDMENTS
§ 151.130 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, any plat or part thereof may be vacated
by the owner of the tract, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a
written vacation instrument to which a copy of this plat is attached.
   (B)   If there are public service facilities in any street, other public
right-of-way, or easement shown on the plat, the instrument shall reserve to
this municipality or other appropriate public entity or public utility owning
such facilities the property, rights-of-way, and easements necessary for
continuing public service by means of those facilities and for maintaining or
reconstructing same.
   (C)   The vacation instrument shall be accepted by the governing body in the
same manner as final plats of subdivision, and shall also be accepted by the
County Superintendent of Highways, the Highway Commissioner of the appropriate
township, the District Engineer of the State Department of Transportation
Division of Highways, and the public utilities involved. In the case of platted
tracts wherein any lots have been sold, the written vacation instrument must
also be signed by all the owners of lots in said tract.
(1978 Code, § 16.36.010) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.131 VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   Any subdivider/developer desiring a variance from the
requirements of this subchapter shall file a written application therefor with
the Zoning Administrator at the same time that it files its preliminary plat
sketch. The application shall fully explain the grounds for the variance
request, and specify the section(s) of this subchapter, which if strictly
applied, would cause great practical difficulties or hardship.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare an advisory report on every
variance application and submit it, together with the completed application, to
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review the variance application and the
Zoning Administrator’s comments, and submit their advisory report to the
governing body of this municipality. The Planning Commission’s advisory report
shall be responsive to all variance standards set forth in this section.
   (C)   (1)   At the same meeting that the governing body reviews the
preliminary plat acceptance, the governing body of this municipality shall
decide by resolution whether to grant or deny the requested subdivision
variance application. A copy of its decision, clearly stating its reasons
therefor and the exact terms of any variance granted or denied, shall be
attached to both the preliminary and final plats.
      (2)   The governing body of this municipality shall not grant any
subdivision variance request unless, based upon the information presented to
it, it determines that:
         (a)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this subchapter;
         (b)   Strict application of this subchapter and/or minimum design
standards would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant, not a mere inconvenience or economic responsibility;
         (c)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the
requirements of this subchapter;
         (d)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not
of its own making; and
         (e)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are
not known to be applicable to other tracts, and, therefor, that a variance
would be a more appropriate remedy than an ordinance amendment.
      (3)   The variance, if granted, will not materially frustrate
implementation of the comprehensive plan including the official map.
(1978 Code, § 16.36.020) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.132 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments to this chapter may be proposed by the Zoning
Administrator, any member of the governing body of this municipality, any
Planning Commission member, the Superintendent of Utilities, the Superintendent
of Streets, the Municipal Engineer, the Municipal Attorney, or any party of
interest. Every amendment proposal shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator, in writing. The Zoning Administrator shall promptly transmit
each proposal, together with any comments or recommendations it may wish to
make, to the municipal Planning Commission for consideration at a public
hearing.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
submit an advisory report to the governing body of this municipality. The
governing body shall act on the proposed amendment at its next regularly
scheduled meeting following submission of this report. Without another public
hearing, the governing body of this municipality may either accept or not
accept the proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Planning Commission
for further consideration.
(1978 Code, § 16.36.030) (Ord. 96-11, passed - -1996)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter, or who sells or offers for sale, or lease for any period
exceeding five years, any lot or block of land subject to regulation before all
the requirements of this chapter have been complied with, shall be subject to a
fine as specified in division (B) below.
(1978 Code, § 16.04.040)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who constructs any public
improvements or portion thereof in violation of the provisions of this chapter
and the minimum design standards shall be, upon conviction, fined not less than
$250 or more than $1,000 for each offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(1978 Code, § 16.40.10)
   (C)   Whoever shall sell or offer for sale, lease, or offer for lease, while
this chapter is in effect, any lot or lots or block or blocks within the
incorporated limits of the city, or any additions thereto, or any resubdivision
of any lot or block therein, or within contiguous territory under the
municipality’s jurisdiction as indicated on the official map of the city,
before all of the requirements of this chapter have been complied with, shall
be fined not less than $50 or more than $250 for each lot, block, or part
thereof so disposed of, offered for sale, or leased.
(1978 Code, § 16.40.020)
(Ord. 96-11, passed - - 1996)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISION CERTIFICATES
OWNER’S CERTIFICATE
We, ______, the owners of (Description), have caused the said tract to be
surveyed and subdivided in the manner shown, and said subdivision is to be
hereinafter known as ___________. All rights-of-way and easements shown hereon
are hereby dedicated to the use of the public forever including the release and
waiver of the right of homestead under the homestead exemption laws of the
State of Illinois.
______ (SEAL)
______ (SEAL)
NOTARY PUBLIC’S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
            ss)
COUNTY OF    __)
I, _____________, a notary public in and for the County aforesaid, do hereby
certify that (OWNERS) are personally known to me to be the same persons whose
names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and that they appeared before
me this date in person and acknowledged that they signed and sealed the same as
their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth,
including the release of waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and notarial seal
this _________ day of _______________
               (20)
COUNTY CLERK’S CERTIFICATE
I, ____________, County Clerk of Washington County, Illinois, do hereby certify
that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against any of the real estate
included with this plat.
_______________
County Clerk
______________ (SEAL)
(Date)
CERTIFICATE OF CITY OF NASHVILLE
I,____________, Mayor of the City of Nashville, Washington County, Illinois, do
hereby certify that the plat shown hereon was duly presented to the City
Council and accepted at a meeting of same held on ____________
                                                               (Date)
         _______________________
               (Mayor)
         (SEAL)
         ATTEST:
         _______________________
         (City Clerk)
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE
I, __________, a currently registered Illinois land surveyor, do hereby certify
that this plat is a correct representation of a survey made under my
supervision at the request of __________________ for the purpose of subdividing
the tract into lots as shown.
____________________________   
Illinois Registered Land Surveyor
____________________________
Registration Number
_______________________(SEAL)
   (Date)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose; statutory authority
   
152.002   Ordinance requiring highest standard prevail
   
152.003   Conformity with provisions required
   
152.004   Nonconforming use continuance authorized
   
152.005   Repair of unsafe buildings required
   
152.006   Minimum street frontage requirement for lot
   
152.007   Principal detached residential building to be sole principal building
on a lot
   
152.008   Limit on number of non-dwelling detached buildings on lot
   
152.009   Essential services exempt from provisions
   
152.010   Building permits approved prior to September 8, 1976
   
152.011   Hearings
   
152.012   Definitions
   
152.013   Amendments
   
152.014   Violation; notice; injunction
Districts and Map
   
152.025   Districts designated
   
152.026   District boundaries established
   
152.027   District boundaries; resolution of disputes
   
152.028   Classification of annexed territory
   
152.029   Zoning map; publication required; fee for copies
Special Districts
   
152.040   A-1 Agricultural District
   
152.041   R-1 One-Family Residence District
   
152.042   R-2 General Residence District
   
152.043   B-1 General Business District
   
152.044   M-1 General Manufacturing District
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
152.055   Loading space requirements
   
152.056   Parking spaces; location
   
152.057   Parking spaces; number required
Supplemental Use Regulations
   
152.070   Applicability
   
152.071   Dwellings; minimum lot size
   
152.072   Districts without public sewer; minimum lot size
   
152.073   Front yard requirements
   
152.074   Side yard requirements
   
152.075   Rear yards; minimum size; measurement
   
152.076   Roof pitch
   
152.077   Roof overhang
   
152.078   Exterior siding and roof shingles
Zoning Administration
   
152.090   Position created; appointment
   
152.091   Enforcement duty
   
152.092   Powers and duties
   
152.093   Issuing special permits or variances prohibited
   
152.094   Authority to require hearing
   
152.095   Appeals; Board of Appeals authority
Zoning Permits and Certificates
   
152.110   Zoning permit; application
   
152.111   Zoning certificate; issuance conditions
   
152.112   Zoning completion certificate
   
152.113   Certificate of zoning; record keeping required
   
152.114   Change in use; new certificate of zoning required
   
152.115   Forms; approval
Board of Appeals and Appeals
   
152.130   Creation; composition; term; vacancy
   
152.131   Meetings and hearings
   
152.132   Powers
   
152.133   Voting procedures
   
152.134   Record keeping required
   
152.135   Judicial review required; authorization
   
152.136   Appeals; preliminary procedures
   
152.137   Proceedings stayed by appeals; exception
   
152.138   Hearing
Variances and Special Uses
   
152.150   Special use
   
152.151   Board of Appeals may grant variances
   
152.152   Conditions for granting variances
   
152.153   Variances; hearings; notices; special uses
   
152.154   Fees
Planned Unit Development
   
152.165   Definition
   
152.166   PUD special use permit requirements
 
   
152.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to regulate zoning, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1
   Board of Appeals, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3
   Requiring publication of the official zoning map, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-19
   Variances, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
    Pursuant to the provisions of the 65 ILCS 5, Div. 13, Art. 11, the
ordinance codified in this chapter is passed to the end that adequate light,
pure air, and safety from fire and other dangers may be secured; that the
taxable value of land and buildings throughout the city may be conserved; that
congestion in the public streets may be lessened or avoided; that the hazards
to persons and damage to property resulting from the accumulation or runoff of
storm or flood waters may be lessened or avoided; and that the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, and welfare may otherwise be promoted.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.002 ORDINANCE REQUIRING HIGHEST STANDARD PREVAIL.
   Where the zoning ordinance codified in this chapter places restrictions on
the use of buildings, structures, or yards that are similarly restricted by
other ordinances of the city, the ordinance requiring the highest standard
shall prevail.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.020) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.003 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
    Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no building, structure, or
land shall be used and no building, structure, or part thereof shall be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, occupied, moved, altered, or repaired
except in conformity with all provisions of the zoning ordinance codified in
this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.030) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.004 NONCONFORMING USE CONTINUANCE AUTHORIZED.
   Any building, structure, or use lawfully existing at the time of enactment
of the zoning ordinance codified in this chapter shall be allowed to continue
as a nonconforming use. Such uses may be changed subject to the procedures
specified in §
152.029.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.040) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.005 REPAIR OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any part of any building or structure which is declared unsafe by the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall be strengthened or restored to a safe condition.
   (B)   Within a time period specified by, and within the sole discretion of
the Zoning Board of Appeals, failure by the owner to bring his or her building
into compliance as specified by the Zoning Board of Appeals within the time
period designated shall result in condemnation of the building by the city.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.050) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
§ 152.006 MINIMUM STREET FRONTAGE REQUIREMENT FOR LOT.
   No lot shall contain any building used as a dwelling unless it abuts at
least 30 feet on a street.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.060) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.007 PRINCIPAL DETACHED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING TO BE SOLE PRINCIPAL BUILDING
ON A LOT.
   Not more than one principal detached residential dwelling shall be located
on a lot, nor shall any principal detached residential dwelling be located on
the same lot with any other principal building.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.070) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.008 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF NON- DWELLING DETACHED BUILDINGS ON LOT.
   No more than two non-dwelling detached structures shall be allowed on a lot
without a hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.075) (Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
§ 152.009 ESSENTIAL SERVICES EXEMPT FROM PROVISIONS.
   Essential services, as defined in §
152.012, shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.080) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.010 BUILDING PERMITS APPROVED PRIOR TO SEPTEMBER 8, 1976.
   Applications for building permits that have been approved prior to September
8, 1967, the date of adoption of the zoning ordinance codified in this chapter
shall be honored, and building may proceed under rules in effect before
adoption.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.090) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.011 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Oath required. All testimony by witnesses in any hearing provided for
in this chapter shall be given under oath.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.100)
   (B)   School district right to appear authorized. In any hearing provided
for in this chapter, any school district within which the property in issue, or
any part thereof, is located shall have the right to appear and present
evidence.
(1978 Code, § 17.04.110)
(Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.012 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Tense; singular and plural. Words used in the present tense include
the future, words in the singular number include the plural, and words in the
plural number include the singular.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or a structure subordinate to the
principal use or building on the same lot and serving a purpose customarily
incidental thereto.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.020)
      AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes. This includes
necessary buildings and structures which shall be used for agriculture
including, but not limited to, farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry, and
the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the normal agriculture activities. Buildings occupied as
residences shall not be considered to be used for agricultural purposes.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.030)
      ALLEY. A public or private way less than 21 feet in width affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.040)
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof, designated or used for
the care, observation, or treatment of domestic animals.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.050)
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles, or trailers; collision service, including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop and vehicle
steam cleaning.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.060)
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any area of land where two or more motor
vehicles, not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open
and are not being restored to operation; or any land, building, or structure
used for the wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles, not in running
condition, or parts thereof.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.070)
      BASEMENT.
         (a)   A story having part but not more than 50% of its height below
the average grade of the adjoining ground, as distinguished from a “cellar”.
         (b)   A BASEMENT shall be counted as a story for purpose of height
measurement.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.080)
      BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
or chattels.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.090)
      CELLAR. A story having 50% or more of its height below the average grade
of the adjoining ground.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.100)
      DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment that accommodates patrons’
automobiles, from which the occupants may purchase or watch.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.110)
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof occupied or intended to be
occupied exclusively for residence purposes, but not including a tent, cabin,
trailer, or trailer coach, or a room in a hotel or motel.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.120)
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance, by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies,
of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or
distribution systems; collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems;
and elevated and underground water storage tanks; including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire-alarm boxes, police
callboxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service by such public utilities or municipal or other governmental
agencies or for the public health or safety or general welfare, but not
including buildings.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.130)
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption,
together with his, her, or their domestic servants, maintaining a common
household in a dwelling.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.140)
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a principal
building used for the storage of self-propelled passenger vehicles or trailers
of the occupants of the premises and/or not more than one truck of a rated
capacity not exceeding one and one-half tons.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.150)
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building where automotive vehicles are painted,
rebuilt, reconstructed, and/or stored for compensation.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.160)
      HEIGHT. In the case of a wall, or part of a building, the vertical
distance from the average established curb grade in front of the lot or from
the average finished grade at the building line, if higher, to the average
height of the top of the cornice of a flat roof or roof line, or to the deck
line of a mansard roof, or to the middle height of the highest gable or dormer
in a pitched or hipped roof, or if there are no gables or dormers, to the
middle height of such pitched or hipped roof.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.170)
      HIGHWAY or PRIMARY THOROUGHFARE. An officially designated federal or
state numbered highway or other road designated as a highway or primary
thoroughfare on the thoroughfare plan as officially adopted and amended from
time to time by the Planning Commission.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.180)
      HOME OCCUPATION. Customary incidental home occupations, such as
handicraft, dressmaking, millinery, and preserving, or office of physician,
dentist, insurance agent, or similar professional services, provided that, no
more than 20% of the floor area is use for said purposes, that no internal or
external structural alteration is required, that no more than one person from
outside the family is employed, and that no sale of products takes place on the
premises.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.190)
      JUNKYARD. An open area or fenced enclosure, where used or secondhand
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, dissembled, or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber tires, and bottles. A JUNKYARD includes an automobile wrecking
yard, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.200)
      KENNEL. Any structure or premises where three or more dogs over four
months of age are kept.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.210)
      LOT. A parcel of land, abutting on a street, whose area, in addition to
the parts thereof occupied or hereafter to be occupied by a building and its
accessory buildings, is sufficient to provide the yards and courts required by
this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.220)
      LOT AREA. The horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.230)
      LOT, CORNER.
         (a)   CORNER LOT means a lot situated at the intersection of two
streets, provided that, the interior angle made by the front lot lines at the
intersection is less than 135 degrees.
         (b)   A CORNER LOT shall be deemed to have two front yard and two side
yard lot lines in regards to building set back lines and rules.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.240)
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.250)
      LOT, INTERIOR. A other than a corner lot.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.260)
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which is along an existing or
dedicated street or road. A corner lot will have two front lot lines.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.270)
      LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is
more or less nearly parallel to, the front lot line.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.280)
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot
line.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.290)
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which
has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds; or a parcel of
land, the deed to which was recorded in the office of said Recorder prior to
adoption of the zoning ordinance codified in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.300)
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance across the lot between side lot
lines at the building line measured at right angles to the depth.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.310)
      MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME includes manufactured homes constructed after
June 30, 1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured Housing,
Construction, and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
A MOBILE HOME resting in whole on a permanent foundation, with wheels, tongue,
and hitch permanently removed.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.315)
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of
land upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for ten or more
mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used
or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude the tracts
of land from common licensure as a MOBILE HOME PARK if they are maintained and
operated jointly.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.316)
      MODULAR HOME. A factory manufactured single-family structure built in one
or more sections. The average width to length ratio of the living area
(excluding carports, garages, porches, and attachments) shall not exceed a
three to one ratio and shall have a minimum of 900 square feet of living area.
All MODULAR HOMES shall be placed on, anchored to, and structurally supported
by a full perimeter permanent concrete or masonry foundation extending below
the frost line. As with other single- family residences (see §§
152.076 through
152.078), all MODULAR HOMES must have a minimum 4/12 roof pitch for the living
area, a minimum overhang of ten inches (unless the architectural design is
inconsistent with this overhang dimension), and have exterior siding and roof
shingles of a type commonly used in standard residential construction. All
wheels and towing devices must be removed and evidence of the same must not be
visible outside the foundation.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.318)
      MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline, diesel oil, kerosene, or any
other motor fuel or lubrication oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is
offered for sale to the public; and where deliveries are made directly into
motor vehicles, including greasing and oiling; and where automobile accessories
are sold on the premises.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.320)
      NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure, or premises lawfully occupied
as of September 8, 1967, the time of the enactment of the zoning ordinance
codified in this chapter, by a use that does not conform with the provisions of
said ordinance for the district in which it is located; also such use resulting
from changes in zoning districts or in textual provisions made after such date.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.330)
      PARKING AREA, ACCESSORY. An area of one or more parking spaces located on
the same property as the building, structure, or premises it is intended to
serve, or on adjoining or nearby property, and of such shape and nature as to
be appropriate and usable for the parking or storage, loading and unloading of
self-propelled vehicles.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.340)
      PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS MINIMUM. Each parking space as used in preceding
term “parking area, accessory”, shall be no less than ten feet in width and 20
feet in length.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.345)
      SETBACK LINE. The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the front
or side of a structure and the nearest street line.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.350)
      SIGN. Any structure or device for visual communication that is used for
the purpose of bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but
not including any flag, badge, or insignia of any government or governmental
agency, or of any civic, charitable, religious, patriotic, fraternal, or
similar organization, or any sign indicating address. Each display surface of a
sign shall be considered a SIGN.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.360)
      SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing
through or between any adjacent elements of the same; however, such perimeter
shall not include any structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign
and not forming an integral part of the display. (1978 Code, § 17.08.370)
      STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of
any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, or the ceiling or roof
next above such floor; provided, that for the purpose of determining the
required dimensions of yards and courts, when the average story height of a
building exceeds 12 feet, each 12 feet or fraction thereof of the total
building height shall be considered a separate full story or fractional story
respectively, except the first story which may be 15 feet high.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.380)
      STREET. Any public or private way set aside as a permanent right-of-way
for vehicular or pedestrian access 21 feet or more in width if it existed at
the time of the enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter; and any
such public or private way created after enactment of said ordinance, provided
it is 50 feet or more in width.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.390)
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, including, but not limited to, bearing walls, load- bearing
partition, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
exterior walls.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.400)
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground, or attached to something having permanent location on
the ground.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.410)
      SWIMMING POOL. A structure with walls 24 inches high or greater, capable
of holding water and used for swimming.
      YARD, FRONT. An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
building and the front lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as otherwise specified in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.430)
      YARD, REAR. An open space extending the full width of a lot between a
building and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as otherwise specified in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.440)
      YARD, SIDE. An open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between a building and the side lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as otherwise specified in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.08.450)
(Ord. 268, passed - -1967; Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 88-13, passed - -
1988; Ord. 98-5, passed - -1998; Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-19-2009)
§ 152.013 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations imposed and the districts created under this chapter
may be amended from time to time by ordinance after the ordinance establishing
them has gone into effect, but no such amendments shall be made without a
hearing before the City Planning Commission.
   (B)   Notice shall be given of the time and place of the hearing, not more
than 30 nor less than 15 days before the hearing by publishing a notice thereof
at least once in one or more newspapers published in the city.
   (C)   In case a written protest against any proposed amendments of the
regulations or districts signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed
with the City Clerk, then the proposed amendment shall not be passed except by
a favorable vote of two-thirds of all of the Alderman of the city.
(1978 Code, § 17.64.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
Statutory reference:
   Amendments to zoning ordinances, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14
§ 152.014 VIOLATION; NOTICE; INJUNCTION.
   (A)   In case any building or structure is constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or
land is used in violation of the provisions codified in this chapter the City
Attorney in the name of the city, or any owner or tenant of real property in
the same contiguous zoning district as the building or structure in question,
in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or
proceeding:
      (1)   To prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use; or
      (2)   To prevent the occupancy of the building, structure, or land;
      (3)   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about
the premises; or
      (4)   To restrain, correct, or abate the violation. When any such action
is instituted by an owner or tenant, notice of such action shall be served upon
the city at the time suit is begun, by serving a copy of the complaint on the
Mayor of the city, no such action may be maintained until such notice has been
given.
   (B)   In any action or proceeding for a purpose mentioned in this section,
the court with jurisdiction of such action or proceeding has the power to and
in its discretion may issue a restraining order, or a preliminary injunction,
as well as a permanent injunction, upon such terms and under such conditions as
will do justice and enforce the purposes of the provisions codified in this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   If a permanent injunction is decreed in any action or proceeding
for a purpose mentioned in this section, the court in its decree may, in its
discretion, allow the plaintiff a reasonable sum of money for the services of
the plaintiff’s attorney.
      (2)   This allowance shall be a part of the costs of the litigation
assessed against the defendant, and may be recovered as such.
(1978 Code, § 17.68.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-19-
2009)
DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 152.025 DISTRICTS DESIGNATED.
   All territory within the city and contiguous territory within one and one-
half miles of the city is divided into five zoning districts as follows:
   (A)   R-1: One-Family District;
   (B)   R-2: General Residential District;
   (C)   B-1: Business District;
   (D)   M-1: General Manufacturing District; and
   (E)   A-1: Agricultural District.
(1978 Code, § 17.12.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.026 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be established on a map
entitled zoning district map, which accompanies and is made a part of the
ordinance codified in this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   District boundary lines are meant to follow lot lines,
centerlines of streets or alleys, railroad rights-of-way, and similar natural
features.
      (2)   Where boundary lines do not clearly coincide with such features,
their location shall be determined by scaling.
(1978 Code, § 17.12.020) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.027 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES; RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES.
   Questions concerning exact location of district boundaries shall be resolved
by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(1978 Code, § 17.12.030) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.028 CLASSIFICATION OF ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   All territory which is annexed to the city after September 8, 1967, shall be
classified as R-1, One- family Residential. However, within a reasonable period
of time, the Planning Commission shall, through proper procedures, recommend
zoning for said annexed territory.
(1978 Code, § 17.12.040) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.029 ZONING MAP; PUBLICATION REQUIRED; FEE FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause to be published not later than March 31
of each year a map clearly showing the existing zoning uses, divisions,
restrictions, regulations, and classifications of the city for the preceding
calendar year.
   (B)   If in any calendar year after the first map is published there are not
changes in zoning use, divisions, restrictions, regulations, and
classifications in the city, no map shall be published for such calendar year.
The map published by the City Council shall be the official zoning map.
(1978 Code, § 17.12.050) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
§ 152.040 A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in an Agricultural District
are as follows:
      (1)   Agricultural uses; provided that, raising of cattle, hogs,
chickens, or other livestock shall not be located nearer than 300 feet from any
lot in an R District;
      (2)   Sale of agricultural products, provided that, products sold are
raised or grown on the premises;
      (3)   Single-family residences;
      (4)   Essential services as defined in §
152.012;
      (5)   Trailer parks; provided, that such park is located adjacent to and
extending not more than 600 feet from a marked state or federal highway;
      (6)   Motels, provided they are located adjacent to and extend not more
than 600 feet from a marked state or federal highway; and
      (7)   Country clubs, golf courses and similar recreational areas, subject
to prior approval of the Planning Commission.
(1978 Code, § 17.16.010)
   (B)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses permitted in an Agricultural District
include uses customarily incidental to a permitted principal use and located on
the same lot as the principal use, include the following uses:
      (1)   Private garages and parking areas;
      (2)   Real estate signs of a temporary nature offering the premises for
sale or rent; and
      (3)   Announcement or professional signs not exceeding four square feet
in area; said signs must be located on private property, except that no sign
shall be erected in such a way as to obscure vision of perpendicular oncoming
traffic.
(1978 Code, § 17.16.020)
   (C)   Building height. No building in an Agricultural District shall exceed
three stories or 35 feet in height, except as provided in §§
152.070 through
152.078.
(1978 Code, § 17.16.040)
   (D)   Minimum lot area; frontage, yard, and floor area. The following
minimum requirements shall be observed in an Agricultural District subject to
the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications of §§
152.070 through
152.078.
      (1)   Single-family residence.
         (a)   Lot area: one acre;
         (b)   Frontage: 125 feet;
         (c)   Front yard depth on marked state or federal highways: 50 feet;
         (d)   Front yard depth, all roads except state or federal marked
highways: 40 feet;
         (e)   Side yard width: 40 feet total, minimum 15 feet one side;
         (f)   Rear yard depth: 75feet;
         (g)   Floor area: 900 square feet; and
         (h)   Maximum lot coverage: 10%.
      (2)   Trailer parks. Trailer park designs must be submitted to the City
Planning Commission for approval before permits can be issued:
         (a)   Lot area, total trailer park, five acres;
         (b)   Front yard depth, marked state or federal highways, 50 feet;
         (c)   Front yard depth, nonmarked state or federal highways, 40 feet;
         (d)   Lot area, per trailer, 3,000 square feet; and
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage, 40%
      (3)   Agricultural Uses.
         (a)   Front yard depth, marked state or federal highways, 50 feet; and
         (b)   Front yard depth, nonmarked state or federal highways, 40 feet.
(1978 Code, § 17.16.040)
(Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 385, passed - -1968; Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-19-
2009)
§ 152.041 R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in a One-Family Residence
District are as follows:
      (1)   One-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Any buildings or structures occupied by or used for churches,
Sunday schools, parish houses, public, and parochial elementary and secondary
schools, public libraries, museums, and similar public cultural uses, provided
that, no such structure shall be located nearer than 25 feet to any lot line in
any R District;
      (3)   Essential services, municipal administrative, or public service
buildings or properties except such uses as storage yards, warehouses, garages,
or similar activities, provided that, no such structure shall be located nearer
than 25 feet to any lot line in any R District;
      (4)   Public and civic parks, playgrounds, and community centers;
      (5)   Gardening and general farming, nurseries, and greenhouses,
including sale of produce grown on the premises; however, chicken farms, hog
farms, or any commercial animal farm shall not be considered as a permitted
use, and any building or lot on which farm animals are kept shall be located at
least 100 feet from any lot line in any R District; and
      (6)   Country clubs, golf courses, swimming clubs, and similar
recreational uses, provided that, any building or structure used in connection
with said use shall be kept distant at least 100 feet from any lot line in an R
District.
(1978 Code, § 17.20.010)
   (B)   Accessory uses designated. Accessory uses permitted in a One-Family
Residence District include uses customarily incidental to a permitted use and
located on the same lot as such use, include the following uses:
      (1)   Private garages or parking areas;
      (2)   Storage sheds of 144 square feet or less;
      (3)   Swimming pools, as defined in §
152.012, shall require a zoning use and setback permit, and may be permitted as
follows.
         (a)   Applicants for installation of a pool shall notify contiguous
owners.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may:
            1.   Issue the permit;
            2.   Deny the permit; or
            3.   Call for a hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (c)   Upon denial of the application by the Zoning Administrator, the
applicant may appeal the denial to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (4)   Fences:
         (a)   All fences shall be set in a minimum of one foot from the
boundary lines;
         (b)   Fences constructed in the front yard shall be no higher than 42
inches from the ground;
         (c)   Fences constructed in the rear and side yard shall not exceed
eight feet in height from the ground; and
         (d)   A fence at least six feet in height from the ground shall
enclose all swimming pools to prevent unauthorized entry into the pool area.
      (5)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
      (6)   Real estate signs of a temporary nature offering the premises for
sale or rent; said signs must be located on private property; except that said
signs shall not be erected in such a way as to obscure vision of perpendicular
oncoming traffic; and
      (7)   Announcement or professional signs not exceeding four square feet
in area; said signs must be located on private property; except that said signs
shall not be erected in such a way as to obscure vision of perpendicular
oncoming traffic.
(1978 Code, § 17.20.020)
   (C)   Accessory uses not prohibited. No accessory use is permitted on a lot
separate from the lot containing the primary use, even if the lots are
contiguous and have a common ownership.
   (D)   Building height. No principal building in a One-Family Residence
District should exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in height, and no
accessory structure should exceed one story of 15 feet in height, except as
provided in §§
152.070 through
152.078.
(1978 Code, § 17.20.030)
   (E)   Minimum lot area, frontage, yard and floor area. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in a One-Family Residence District subject to
the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications §§
152.070 through
152.078:
      (1)   Lot area: 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Frontage: 75 feet;
      (3)   Front yard depth: 35 feet;
      (4)   Side yard width: 20 feet total, minimum seven feet one side;
      (5)   Rear yard depth: 50 feet;
      (6)   Floor area: 1,050 square feet;
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage 20%; and
      (8)   The setback requirement for accessory uses authorized in divisions
(B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(6), and (B)(7) shall be the same as the side yard
setback requirements of this section.
(1978 Code, § 17.20.040)
(Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 87-5, passed - -1987; Ord. 88-15, passed - -
1988; Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996; Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-19-2009)
§ 152.042 R-2 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the General Residence
District are as follows:
      (1)   Any use or structure permitted in the R- 1 One-Family Residence
District;
      (2)   Dwelling for any number of families;
      (3)   Boarding and lodging houses;
      (4)   Kindergartens, day nurseries, and nursery schools;
      (5)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (6)   Tourist homes, motels, and motor hotels, provided said uses are
located on lots abutting state or federal highways;
      (7)   Offices of civic, religious, or charitable institutions and
financial and insurance companies; offices of physicians, dentists, architects,
engineers, attorneys, real estate, and similar professions, but not when
merchandise is sold on the premises;
      (8)   Mobile home parks; provided, that public sewer and water are
available and that each mobile home site contains a minimum area of 4,5000
square feet;
      (9)   Cemeteries;
      (10)   Parking areas for use in adjoining less restrictive district when
abutting directly on the less restrictive district;
      (11)   Hospitals, sanatoriums, and nursing homes; provided, that no
building shall be located nearer than 100 feet from any lot in any R District;
      (12)    Single-family modular home; and
      (13)   A planned unit development may only be constructed in an R-
2 General Residence District upon issuance of a planned unit development
special use permit as provided in §§
152.165 and
152.166.
(1978 Code, § 17.24.010)
   (B)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Any accessory use or structure permitted in the R-1 Family
Residence District shall be permitted in the General Residence District.
      (2)   An accessory use is permissible where two lots are contiguous, have
a common ownership, the primary use is on a lot separate from the lot
containing the accessory use, and the accessory use does not exceed 1,200
square feet.
(1978 Code, § 17.24.020)
   (C)   Prohibited uses. No sign shall be erected in such a way as to obscure
vision of perpendicular oncoming traffic.
   (D)   Fences.
      (1)   All fences shall be set in a minimum of one foot from the boundary
lines of each site.
      (2)    Fences constructed in the front yard shall be no higher than 42
inches from the ground.
      (3)    Fences constructed in the rear and side yard shall not exceed
eight feet in height from the ground.
      (4)   A fence at least six feet in height from the ground shall enclose
all swimming pools to prevent unauthorized entry into the pool area.
(1978 Code, § 17.24.025)
   (E)   Building height.
      (1)   No principal structure in a Multi-family Residence District (R-
2 District) shall exceed either of the following limitations without a hearing,
and except as provided in §§
152.070 through
152.078 said limitations being as follows:
         (a)   Three stories in height; or
         (b)   Thirty-five feet in height.
      (2)   No accessory structure should exceed one story or 15 feet in
height, except as provided in §§
152.070 through
152.078.
(1978 Code, § 17.24.030)
   (F)   Minimum lot area, frontage, lot coverage yards and floor area
requirements. The following minimum requirements shall be observed in a Multi-
Family Residence District subject to the additional requirements, exceptions,
and modifications of §§
152.070 through
152.078 :
      (1)   Lot area: 6,000 feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 60 feet;
      (3)   Front yard depth: 30 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard depth: 40 feet;
      (5)   Side yard width: 12 feet total, minimum width of one side yard,
five feet;
      (6)   Lot area per family: 3,000 square feet;
      (7)   Floor area: 900 square feet for one- family residence; 600 square
feet per family for two- family residence; 350 square feet per family for
district residence; and
      (8)   Maximum lot coverage: 40%.
(1978 Code, § 17.24.040)
(Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 88-13, passed --1988; Ord. 96-10, passed - -
1996; Ord. 98-5, passed --1998; Ord. 2005-1, passed - -2005; Ord. 2009-01,
passed 2-19-2009)
§ 152.043 B-1 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the B-1 District shall be
as follows.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-2 General Residence District shall be
permitted in the B-1 General Business District, except that a planned unit
development may only be constructed in an R-2 General Residence District upon
issuance of a planned unit development special use permit as provided in §§
152.165 and
152.166.
      (2)   Any retail business establishment supplying commodities to
residents of the community and its general trade area, which is not
characterized by excessive noise, smoke, odor, or similar obnoxious effect.
(1978 Code, § 17.28.010)
   (B)    Accessory uses.
      (1)   Any accessory use or structure permitted in the R-2 District shall
be permitted in the B-1 District.
      (2)   (a)   Other accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted
use, including advertising signs, shall be permitted.
         (b)   Signs advertising a business activity occurring on the same
property shall be a permanent sign and not a temporary sign.
(1978 Code, § 17.28.020)
   (C)   Prohibited uses. No sign shall be erected in such a way as to obscure
vision of perpendicular oncoming traffic.
   (D)   Fences.
      (1)   All fences shall be set in a minimum of one foot from the boundary
lines of each site.
      (2)   Fences constructed in the front yard shall be no higher than 42
inches from the ground.
      (3)   Fences constructed in the rear and side yard shall not exceed eight
feet in height from the ground.
      (4)   A fence at least six feet in height from the ground shall enclose
all swimming pools to prevent unauthorized entry into the pool area.
(1978 Code, § 17.28.025)
   (E)   Building height. No principal structure in a B-1 District should
exceed two stories or 25 feet in height, and no accessory structure should
exceed the height of the principal structure, except as provided in §§
152.070 through
152.078.
(1978 Code, § 17.28.030)
   (F)   Minimum lot, yard, and other requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in a B-1 District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications of §§
152.055 through
152.057.
      (1)   Dwelling. Same regulations as listed for R-2 General Residence.
      (2)   Other permitted uses.
         (a)   Lot area: 6,000 square feet;
         (b)   Lot width: 60 feet;
         (c)   Front yard depth: none in area defined as Central Business
District, 40 feet all other areas;
         (d)   Side yard width: none, except where adjacent to an R District,
then 15 feet on the abutting side;
         (e)   Rear yard depth: 40 feet; and
         (f)   Maximum lot coverage: 50%.
(1978 Code, § 17.28.040)
(Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 88-13, passed 1988; Ord. 2005-1, passed - -
2005; Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-19-2009)
§ 152.044 M-1 GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the M-1 District shall be
as follows:
      (1)   Any use or structure permitted in the B- 1 General Business
District, except that no permanent residence shall be permitted in the M-
1 Zone, residences shall be specifically prohibited; and
      (2)   Any use not specifically prohibited elsewhere in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.32.010)
   (B)   Accessory uses. Any accessory use which is customarily accessory or
incidental to the principal permitted uses shall be permitted in the M-
1 District.
(1978 Code, § 17.32.020)
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Prohibited uses in the M-1 District are as follows:
      (1)   Dwellings, except for caretakers or watchmen on premises;
      (2)   Schools, hospitals, clinics, and other institutions for human care,
except when accessory to a principal permitted use; and
      (3)   No sign shall be erected in such a way as to obscure vision of
perpendicular oncoming traffic.
(1978 Code, § 17.32.030)
   (D)   Height and yard requirements. The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the M-1 District subject to the additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications of §§
152.070 through
152.078.
 
Height of Permitted  Front Yard Depth       Side Yard, Widths, Rear Yard Depth
Uses                                        Each
1-3 stories or 50    25 feet                None               30 feet
feet in height
More than 3 stories, 60% of building height None               40 feet
or over 50 feet
 
(1978 Code, § 17.32.040)
(Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-19-2009)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 152.055 LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In all districts, in connection with every building or structure
hereinafter erected which has a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or more,
and which is occupied or will be occupied by uses which require the receipt or
distribution of goods or merchandise, there shall be provided on the same
premises a minimum of one off-street loading space, plus one additional loading
space for each 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof in excess of 20,000
square feet.
   (B)   Said space or spaces may occupy all of any part of a required rear
yard. It may occupy side or front yard space upon authorization of the Board of
Appeals.
(1978 Code, § 17.36.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.056 PARKING SPACES; LOCATION.
   In all districts, off-street accessory-parking areas or garages, shall be
provided in conjunction with the uses set forth herein. Said parking spaces
should be in addition to any required loading space. For dwellings, required
spaces shall be on the premises intended to be served. For either uses, such
areas shall be on the premises or property within 100 feet of any part of the
premises.
(1978 Code, § 17.36.020) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.057 PARKING SPACES; NUMBER REQUIRED.
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                                                       Parking Spaces Required
                                                                          1 for each 1,000 square feet of floor area, plus 1 for each employee
Automobile or machinery sales and services garages                        present and employed during peak employment hours, plus 1 off-street
                                                                          parking space for each vehicle in the dealership’s inventory and offered
                                                                          for sale or service
Banks, business, and professional offices                                 1 for each 200 square feet of floor area
Beauty shops                                                              1 for each dryer, plus 1 for each 2 employees on maximum shift
Bowling alleys                                                            3 for each alley
Churches and schools                                                      1 for each 4 seats in principal auditorium
Coin-operated laundries and/or dry-cleaning establishments                1 for each 3 washers and/or cleaning machines, plus 1 for each 2 employees
                                                                          on maximum shift
Convenience stores-Drug, grocery, hardware, and similar stores            1 for each 300 square feet of floor area devoted to sales, plus 1 for each
                                                                          full-time employee
Dance halls and assembly halls without fixed seats                        1 for each 50 square feet of floor area used for dancing or assembly
Day care centers, nursery schools, and the like                           1 for each employee, plus 1 for every 4 children present during peak
                                                                          occupancy
Drive-in eating establishments                                            Not less than one-third of total ground area be devoted exclusively to
                                                                          parking and access ways
Dwellings                                                                 2 for each dwelling unit
Food pickup establishments                                                Minimum of 1, plus 1 for each 100 square feet of floor area
Funeral homes, mortuaries                                                 6 per chapel room or parlor, or 1 per 50 square feet of rooms used for
                                                                          services, whichever is greater
Hospitals, nursing homes, and similar care centers                        1 for each 5 beds, plus 1 for each 2 doctors and employees
Hotels, clubs, and lodging houses                                         1 for each 2 bedrooms
Manufacturing plants, research or testing laboratories and bottling       1 for each 3 employees on maximum working shift
plants
Medical or dental clinics                                                 1 for each 200 square feet of floor area, plus 1 for each employee present
                                                                          and employed during peak employment hours, plus 1 for each doctor
Motels and motor hotels                                                   1 for each unit, plus 1 for each 2 employees on a maximum shift
Motor fuel stations                                                       1 for each employee on duty, plus 2 for each service bay
Service establishments: barbershop                                        2 for each chair, plus 1 for each 2 employees on maximum shift
Restaurants                                                               1 for each 3 seats, plus 1 for each 2 employees on maximum shift
Shoppers’ goods, appliances, household equipment, furniture and similar 1 for each 500 square feet of floor area, plus 1 for each full-time
items                                                                     employee
Taverns and bars                                                          1 for each 2 seats, plus 1 for each 2 employees on maximum shift
 
(1978 Code, § 17.36.030) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 152.070 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements and regulations specified in this subchapter shall be
subject to the additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications of this
chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.071 DWELLINGS; MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   In any district where dwellings are permitted, a one-family detached
dwelling may be constructed on any lot of official record as of September 8,
1967, the time of enactment of the zoning ordinance codified in this chapter,
provided it is at least 75% of the size required in the district.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.030) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.072 DISTRICTS WITHOUT PUBLIC SEWER; MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   In any district where a public sewer is not available, the minimum lot size
should be 20,000 square feet.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.040) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.073 FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard measurements shall be taken from the main wall of the
structure and shall not include bay windows, balconies, chimneys, flues,
leaders, sills, uncovered porches, or similar features.
   (B)   In any block where a building line has been established which differs
from the required yard, the established line shall set the size of the front
yard; provided, that front yard depth shall not be less than ten feet.
   (C)   Where at least 30% of a block has been developed with varied front
yard setbacks, the required minimum shall be the average of the existing front
yards; provided, that the front yard depth shall not be less than ten feet in
any R District.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.050) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.074 SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   On lots of record at the time of enactment of this chapter, side yard
requirements may be reduced by 20%; provided, that no side yard shall be less
than three feet.
   (B)   Side yards may be measured to the centerline of adjoining alleys, but
in no case shall structures be less than three feet from the alley right-of-way
line.
   (C)   (1)   In measuring side yards, the wall of the structure shall be used
as a base point.
      (2)   Chimneys, flues, sills, cornices, eaves, gutters, terraces, steps,
uncovered porches, and similar features may project into the required yard.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.060) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.075 REAR YARDS; MINIMUM SIZE; MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   On lots of record at the time of enactment oft this chapter rear yards
may be reduced by 20% from the requirement of the particular district, provided
that, rear yards shall not be less than ten feet in depth.
   (B)   Rear yards may be measured from the centerline of adjoining alleys.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.070) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.076 ROOF PITCH.
   The roof pitch of the living area (excluding carports, garages, porches, and
attachments) of all single-family structures shall have a minimum 4/12 roof
pitch.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.080) (Ord. 98-5, passed - -1998)
§ 152.077 ROOF OVERHANG.
   The roof overhang of the living area (excluding carports, garages, porches,
and attachments) of all single-family structures shall have a minimum of ten
inches of roof overhang unless the architectural design is inconsistent with
this overhang dimension.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.090) (Ord. 98-5, passed - -1998)
§ 152.078 EXTERIOR SIDING AND ROOF SHINGLES.
   The exterior siding and roof shingles of all single-family structures shall
be of a type commonly used in standard residential construction.
(1978 Code, § 17.40.100) (Ord. 98-5, passed - -1998)
ZONING ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.090 POSITION CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The position of Zoning Administrator is created.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to
confirmation by the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 17.44.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.091 ENFORCEMENT DUTY.
   It is the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.44.020) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.092 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall examine all applications for
permits, issue permits for the construction, alterations, and enlargement of
all uses which are in accordance with the requirements of the zoning ordinance
codified in this chapter.
      (2)   All non-conforming uses, record, and file all applications for
permits with accompanying plans and documents and make such reports as may be
required.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to establish such rules
as are necessary to effectuate the intent of this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.44.030) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996;
Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-19-2009)
§ 152.093 ISSUING SPECIAL PERMITS OR VARIANCES PROHIBITED.
   The Zoning Administrator does not have authority to issue permits for a
variance from the requirements of this chapter or permits for special uses.
(1978 Code, § 17.44.040) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.094 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE HEARING.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to require a hearing if, in his
or her opinion, such a hearing would serve the best interests of the public.
   (B)   No fee shall be assessed for such a hearing.
(1978 Code, § 17.44.045) (Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
§ 152.095 APPEALS; BOARD OF APPEALS AUTHORITY.
   Any appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be to the
Board of Appeals.
(1978 Code, § 17.44.050) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
ZONING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
§ 152.110 ZONING PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Information and copies of plans required. Every application for
a zoning permit shall be accompanied by two copies of the building plans and of
a plot plan.
      (2)   The plot plan shall be drawn approximately to scale and shall show
the shape and dimensions of the lot, the location and size of the building to
be erected or altered and the intended use of the building and lot.
      (3)   One copy of all plans shall be retained by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Zoning permit fees. Applications for a zoning permit shall also be
accompanied by a fee which is established, as follows.
Zoning Permit Fees
Structure Fee
Zoning Permit Fees
Structure     Fee
Commercial    New construction and additions:
and           a.   $0.05 per square foot up to 3,500 square feet
industrial    b.   $0.05 per additional ten square feet over 3,500 square feet
              c.   3,500 square feet; minimum fee: $75
Institutional New construction and additions:
and public    a.   $0.02 per square foot    up to 3,500 square feet
buildings     b.   $0.02 per each additional ten square feet over 3,500 square feet
Residential   a.   Single-family structure: $0.03 per square foot (excluding basement); minimum
structure     fee: $25; maximum fee: $100
(including    b.   Two-family structure: $0.03 per square foot; minimum fee: $25; maximum fee:
modular       $125
housing); new c.   Multi-family structure (three or more units): $0.03 per square foot up to
construction  3,500 square feet; $0.03 per additional ten square feet in excess of 3,500 square
              feet; minimum fee: $75
Residential;  a.   Additions to existing structures and accessory structures: $0.02 per square
additions,    foot; minimum fee: $10
accessory     b.   Swimming pools; permanent installation: $25
buildings,    c.   Relocation of structures:
structural       i.   To a point within the city limits: $50
modifications
and repairs,     ii.   From a point within city limits to a point outside city limits: $25
and
relocation
 
(1978 Code, § 17.48.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 87-6, passed - -1987;
Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
§ 152.111 ZONING CERTIFICATE; ISSUANCE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Upon determining that the proposed construction or alteration conforms
to the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a
zoning certificate, indicating said conformity.
   (B)   A zoning certificate shall expire after one year for completion of all
exterior services.
(1978 Code, § 17.48.020) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
§ 152.112 ZONING COMPLETION CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Upon completion of the construction or alteration, the Zoning
Administrator shall inspect such building, and if it conforms to the plans and
this chapter, he or she shall issue a zoning completion certificate.
   (B)   If, at the end of one year, the exterior construction is not complete,
a time extension may be granted only by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   If not completed within the time limit of their extension, the
structure is subject to condemnation and demolition proceedings, with the
structure to be torn down at property owner’s expense.
(1978 Code, § 17.48.030) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
§ 152.113 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING; RECORD KEEPING REQUIRED.
   A record of all certificates of zoning shall be kept on file in the office
of the Zoning Administrator and copies shall be furnished on request to any
person having an interest in land or in a building affected by such certificate
of zoning.
(1978 Code, § 17.48.040) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
§ 152.114 CHANGE IN USE; NEW CERTIFICATE OF ZONING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subsequent to September 8, 1967, no change in the use of land, nor any
change of use in any existing building or part thereof shall be made, nor shall
any new building be occupied for any purpose until a certificate of zoning has
been issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Such certificates of zoning shall state that the new occupancy
complies with all the provisions of this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.48.050) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967; Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
§ 152.115 FORMS; APPROVAL.
   All zoning permit application forms and certificate of zoning forms shall be
approved by vote of the City Council.
(1978 Code, § 17.48.060) (Ord. 96-10, passed - -1996)
BOARD OF APPEALS AND APPEALS
§ 152.130 CREATION; COMPOSITION; TERM; VACANCY.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals of the city is created pursuant to 65 ILCS
5, Div. 13, Art. 11, Ch. 24, as amended. The Board shall consist of seven
members appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The members of the first Board shall serve respectively for the
following terms (or until their respective successors are appointed and
qualified): one for one year, one for two years, one for three years, one for
four years, one for five years, one for six years, and one for seven years, and
the successor to each original members so appointed to serve for a term of
seven years.
   (C)   (1)   One of the members of the Board shall be designated by the Mayor
with the consent of the City Council as Chairperson of the Board, and shall
hold office as Chairperson until his or her successor is appointed.
      (2)   Vacancies upon the Board shall be filled for the unexpired term of
the member whose place has become vacant in the manner provided in this section
for the appointment of such member.
   (D)   The City Council has the power to remove any member of the Board for
cause and after public hearing.
(1978 Code, § 17.52.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.131 MEETINGS AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   All meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine.
      (2)   The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting Chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings
conducted by the Board shall be open to the public.
   (B)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
that fact, and shall keep record of its hearing and other official actions.
(1978 Code, § 17.52.020) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.132 POWERS.
   The Board shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To hear and decide appeals, as provided in §§
152.136 through
152.138, from any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter;
   (C)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter and zoning map;
   (D)   To grant relief from the strict terms of this chapter, where special
conditions will cause unnecessary hardship, as provided in §§
152.136 through
152.138, and may attach conditions to such variance to assure that the spirit
and intent of this chapter is maintained;
   (E)   To hear and decide requests for special uses and exceptions as
authorized in this chapter, including the substitution of one nonconforming use
for another and authorization of certain industries as specified in this
chapter; and
   (F)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under the provisions codified in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.52.030) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.133 VOTING PROCEDURES.
   The concurring vote of four members of the Board is necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or
to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is required to
pass under the provisions codified in this chapter or to effect any variation
in this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 17.52.040) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.134 RECORD KEEPING REQUIRED.
   Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a
requested variation or special use, and the reasons for granting or denying
such application shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment
or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision, or determination of
the Board shall immediately be filed in the office of the Board and shall be a
public record.
(1978 Code, § 17.52.050) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.135 JUDICIAL REVIEW REQUIRED; AUTHORIZATION.
   All final administrative decisions of the Board of Appeals shall be subject
to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Procedure
Act, being 5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq., approved May 8, 1945, and all amendments and
modifications thereof, and rules adopted pursuant thereto. The term
“administrative decision” is defined as in § 1 of the Administrative Review
Act.
(1978 Code, § 17.52.060) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.136 APPEALS; PRELIMINARY PROCEDURES.
   An appeal to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city. The appeal shall be
taken within such time as shall be prescribed by the Board of Appeals by a
general rule by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with
the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The
officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
(1978 Code, § 17.56.010) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.137 PROCEEDINGS STAYED BY APPEALS; EXCEPTION.
    (A)   An appeal stays all proceedings in the furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or
her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or
her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (B)   In this event the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Appeals or by a court of
record on application and on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is
taken, and on due cause shown.
(1978 Code, § 17.56.020) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
§ 152.138 HEARING.
   The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the appeal within
a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney. The Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination as in its
opinion ought to be made in the premises and to that end has all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(1978 Code, § 17.56.030) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
VARIANCES AND SPECIAL USES
§ 152.150 SPECIAL USE.
   (A)   (1)   Special uses may include, but are not limited to, public and
quasi-public uses effected with the public interest, uses which may have a
unique, special or unusual impact upon the use or enjoyment of neighboring
property, and planned developments.
      (2)   A use may be a permitted use in one or more zoning districts, and a
special use in one or more other zoning districts.
   (B)   The following uses of land or structures, or both, may be permitted in
any use district, subject to the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Airport, landing field, or landing strip;
      (2)   Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash or garbage;
      (3)   Bus terminal, railroad passenger station, or any other
transportation terminal facilities;
      (4)   Cable television control station or plant;
      (5)   Cemeteries, crematories, or mausoleums;
      (6)   Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teaching;
      (7)   Golf courses, public or private;
      (8)   Hospitals, care centers, or sanitariums;
      (9)   Institutions for the care of the mentally handicapped;
      (10)   Municipal or privately owned recreation building or community
center;
      (11)   Nursery schools, day nurseries, and child care centers;
      (12)   Parking area, public;
      (13)   Police stations, fire stations or place for storage of municipal
equipment;
      (14)   Public administration building, auditorium, gymnasium, or any
other publicly-owned structure;
      (15)   Public or private park or playground;
      (16)   Public utility facilities (i.e., filtration plant or pumping
station, heat or power plant, transformer station, and other similar
facilities);
      (17)   Radio and television antenna towers, commercial;
      (18)   Railroad right-of-way;
      (18)   Schools, public or private; and
      (19)   Telephone exchange.
   (C)   A special use shall be permitted only after a public hearing before
the Board of Appeals with prior notice thereof given in the manner as provided
in §
152.153 (A) and (B).
   (D)   A special use shall be permitted only upon evidence that such use
meets standards established for such classification in the ordinances, and the
granting of permission therefor may be subject to conditions reasonably
necessary to meet such standards.
   (E)   Any proposed special use which fails to receive the approval of the
Board of Appeals shall not be approved by the City Council except by a
favorable majority vote of all aldermen of the city then holding office.
   (F)   A planned unit development may only be constructed in an R-2 General
Residence District upon issuance of a planned unit development special use
permit as provided in §§
152.165 and
152.165.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-1.1) (1978 Code, § 15.60.010)
(Ord. 94-7, passed - -1994; Ord. 2005-1, passed - -2005)
§ 152.151 BOARD OF APPEALS MAY GRANT VARIANCES.
   The authority to determine and approve variations is vested in the Board of
Appeals and this authority shall be exercised in accordance with the conditions
described in §
152.152, subject to the power of the corporate authorities to prohibit, in
whole or in part, the granting of variances in respect to the classification,
regulation, and restriction of the location of trades and industries and the
location of buildings designed for specified industrial, business, residential,
or other uses.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-5) (1978 Code, § 17.60.020) (Ord. 94-7, passed - -1994)
§ 152.152 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   Variances shall be permitted by the Board of Appeals only when
they are in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the regulations and
only in cases where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of any of those regulations relating
to the use, construction, or alteration of buildings or structures or the use
of land.
      (2)   In its consideration of the standards of practical difficulties or
particular hardship, the Board of Appeals shall require evidence that:
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone;
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         (c)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
      (3)   A variation shall be permitted only if the evidence, in the
judgment of the Board of Appeals, sustains each of the three conditions
enumerated.
   (B)   A decision of the Board of Appeals under this section shall not be
subject to review, reversal, or modification by the corporate authorities but
shall be judicially reviewable under the provisions of §
152.153(C).
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-4) (1978 Code, § 17.60.030) (Ord. 94-7, passed - -1994)
§ 152.153 VARIANCES; HEARINGS; NOTICES; SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Variances; hearings and notice. No variation shall be made by the
Board of Appeals except in a specific case and after a public hearing before
the Board of Appeals of which there shall be a notice of the time and place of
the hearing published at least once, not more than 30 nor less than 15 days
before the hearing, in one or more newspapers, published in the city. This
notice shall contain the particular location for which the variation is
requested as well as a brief statement of what the proposed variation consists.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-6) (1978 Code, § 17.60.040)
   (B)   Variance; special uses; notice to record owner.
      (1)   (a)   In addition to the notice requirements provided for in
division (A) above, an applicant for variation or special use shall, not more
than 30 days before filing an application for variation or special use with the
Board of Appeals, serve written notice, either in person or by registered mail,
return receipt requested, on the owners, as recorded in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds and as appears from the authentic tax records of such
county, of all property within 250 feet in each direction of the location for
which the variation or special use is requested; provided, the number of feet
occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys, and other public ways shall be
excluded in computing the 250-foot requirement.
         (b)   The notice herein required shall contain:
            1.   The address of the location for which the variation or special
use is requested;
            2.   A brief statement of the nature of the requested variation or
special use;
            3.   The name and address of the legal and beneficial owner of the
property for which the variation or special use is requested;
            4.   A statement that the applicant intends to file an application
for variation or special use; and
            5.   The approximate date on which the application will be filed.
      (2)   If, after a bona fide effort to determine such address by the
applicant for variation or special use, the owner of the property on which the
notice is served cannot be found at his or her last known address, or the
mailed notice is returned because the owner cannot be found at the last known
address, the notice requirements of this section shall be deemed satisfied.
      (3)   In addition to serving the notice required in this section, at the
time of filing application for variation or special use, the applicant shall
furnish to the Board of Appeals:
         (a)   A complete list containing the names and last known addresses of
the owners of the property required to be served;
         (b)   The method of service;
         (c)   The names and last known addresses of the owners of the service;
         (d)   The names and addresses of the persons so served; and
         (e)   A written statement certifying that he or she has complied with
the requirements of this section.
      (4)   The Board of Appeals shall hear no application for variation or
special use unless the applicant for variation or special use furnishes the
list and certificate required in this section.
      (5)   The Board of Appeals shall, not more than 30 days nor less than 15
days before the hearing at which the application for variation or special use
is to be considered, send written notice to the persons appearing on the list
furnished by the applicant, which notice shall contain:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The address of the location for which the variation or special
use is requested;
         (c)   The name and address of the applicant for variation or special
use; and
         (d)   A brief statement of the nature of the variation or special use
requested.
      (6)   (a)   Any property owner within the above stated 250 feet notice
requirement, who entered his or her appearance and objected at the Board of
Appeals hearing, and who shows that his or her property will be substantially
affected by the outcome of the decision of the Board may, without proof of any
specific, special, or unique damages to himself or herself or his or her
property or any adverse effect upon his or her property from the proposed
variation or special use, seek judicial relief from any order or decision of
the Board of Appeals under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 ILCS 110/1-1 et
seq., and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted
pursuant thereto.
         (b)   If the Board of Appeals determines that the property of any such
owner will not be substantially affected by the outcome of the decision of the
Board, such owner may initiate or join in judicial review under the
Administrative Procedure Act, 5 ILCS 110/1-1 et seq., as provided in this
section.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-7) (1978 Code, § 17.60.050)
   (C)   Variances; special uses; rights of applicants and property owners.
      (1)   Zoning variances and special use applicants and property owners, as
set forth in division (B) above, shall have the following rights, in addition
to any others they may possess in law, at any hearing before a Board of
Appeals.
         (a)   1.   To have subpoenas issued for persons to appear at Board of
Appeals hearings and for examination of documents by the person requesting the
subpoena either before or at Board of Appeals hearing subject to the
limitations in this section. The Board of Appeals shall issue subpoenas as
requested by zoning variation and special use applicants and by property owners
within the terms of division (B) above.
            2.   Subpoenas shall only be enforceable against persons or for
documents which have a substantial evidentiary connection with:
               a.   The property for which a zoning variation or special use is
requested;
               b.   Facts which would support or negate the requisite legal
standards for granting a zoning variation or special use; and
               c.   Facts which support or negate the conclusion that property
within the 250 feet notice requirement of division (B) above will be
substantially affected by the outcome of the decision of the Board.
            3.   All matters relating to subpoenas concerning a particular
zoning variation or special use case, including all enforcement and motions to
quash, shall be heard in a single action, however, the court obtaining
jurisdiction over any such matter may retain jurisdiction until the disposition
of the case by the Board of Appeals. Service of such subpoenas shall be made in
the same manner as summons in a civil action.
         (b)   To cross examine all witnesses testifying; and
         (c)    To present witnesses on their behalf.
      (2)   Property owners within the terms of division (B) above who object
to the zoning application or special use application may, upon request, be
granted one continuance for the purpose of presenting evidence to rebut
testimony given by the applicant. The date of such continued hearing shall be
in the discretion of the Board of Appeals.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-7a) (1978 Code, § 17.60.060)
   (D)   Variance or special use; findings of facts; terms of relief.
      (1)   Every variation of special use made by the Board of Appeals shall
be accompanied by findings of facts and shall refer to any exhibits containing
plans and specifications for the proposed use or variation, which shall remain
a part of the permanent records of the Board of Appeals
      (2)   The findings of facts shall specify the reason or reasons for
making the variation. The terms of the relief granted shall be specifically set
forth in a conclusion or statement separate from the findings of fact of the
Board of Appeals. Property for which relief has been granted shall not be used
in violation of the specific terms of the Board of Appeals’ findings of fact,
unless its usage is changed by further findings of fact of a Board of Appeals.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-11) (1978 Code, § 17.60.070)
(Ord. 94-7 passed - -1994)
§ 152.154 FEES.
   Each application for a variation or special use shall be accompanied by a
fee of $25, and each appeal from a ruling of the zoning enforcement officer by
a fee of $5. Such fees shall be turned over the City Treasurer.
(1978 Code, § 17.60.080) (Ord. 94-7, passed - -1994)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 152.165 DEFINITION.
   A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT is a comprehensively planned development
containing residential land use on individually owned lots under continuing
unified control. A PUD is recognized only as a special use under an R-2 Zoning
District. A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT must be reviewed, evaluated, and approved
by the city as set forth in the PUD special use permit requirements.
(1978 Code, § 17.61.010) (Ord. 2005-1, passed - -2005)
§ 152.166 PUD SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for permission and/or
alternative zoning procedures for the development of tracts of land under
single ownership or unified control.
      (2)   The planned unit development is encouraged to permit:
         (a)   The maximum choice in the types of environment available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of the zoning code;
         (b)   Permanent preservation of common open space and recreation areas
and facilities;
         (c)   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation,
topographical, and geologic features;
         (d)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better development and design in the construction of
aesthetic amenities;
         (e)   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks
of utilities, streets, schools, public grounds, and buildings and other
facilities;
         (f)   A land use that promotes the public health, safety, comfort,
morals, and welfare; and
         (g)   Innovations in residential developments so that growing demands
of the population may be met by greater variety and type, design, and layout of
buildings and by the conservation and more efficient use of open space
ancillary to said buildings.
   (B)   Districts where allowed. Planned unit developments may only be built
in the R-2 Zoning District upon the issuance of a special use permit.
   (C)   PUD regulations.
      (1)   PUD special use permit allows for single-family attached
residential units within a structure to be built, with these units potentially
having zero side setback areas within said structure.
      (2)   This special use is subject to all requirements contained herein:
         (a)   Site design for PUD special use permit. The site design for PUD
special use permits must comply with the standards set forth in
Chapter 151 of this code or ordinances.
         (b)   Lot design for PUD special use permit. In regards to the
requirements set forth in §
152.042, individual lots within a PUD may utilize the following exemptions.
            1.    Lot area, dimensions, and lot area per family may be tailored
to fit the scope of the development as deemed appropriate by the Planning
Commission.
            2.   The front, rear, and side setbacks may be tailored to fit the
scope of the development as deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission. A
side setback of zero is specifically permissible with a PUD special use permit,
however, the minimum width of the side setback shall be five feet on one side
and 12 feet total on both sides when the individual lot contains the first or
last unit in the structure. When a lot abuts the perimeter of the development,
the setback requirements for R-2 Districts must be followed. The same side
setback requirement for R-2 Districts shall be observed by accessory
structures.
         (c)   Minimum design standards for PUD special use permit. In addition
to the minimum design standards set forth in the zoning code, individual
residential units within PUD structures must also meet these minimum criteria.
            1.   Maximum number of living units. The maximum number of living
units in each structure shall be indicated on the preliminary plan. If the
developer chooses to build fewer units than planned in any structure (which, in
turn, decreases the number of individual unit lots in the structure), this
shall be allowed. However, if the developer chooses to increase the number of
units in any structure, the developer must submit a new application to the
Planning Commission. The subdivision of parcels into lots will occur at the
time of building permit issuance.
            2.   Common wall. For residential units owned or intended to be
sold to separate owners, so that each owner owns the land, the walls between
adjacent buildings shall be so constructed that, if the adjacent building was
to be removed, including the contiguous wall, the wall of the remaining
building will comply with all applicable structural requirements of the
ordinances of the city concerning outside walls of buildings.
            3.   Minimum fire protection. Each wall or pair of walls between
adjacent units intended or used for dwelling purposes shall have a combined
fire resistance that meets or exceeds appropriate state and federal standards.
            4.   Common facility. Each dwelling unit shall possess individual
utility service lines and metering systems. Individual utility service lines
includes all plumbing and venting lines. Sewer laterals from individual units
may connect to a common interceptor prior to connection to the city sewer main
provided that, each lateral maintains accessibility to be inspected and/or
cleaned independently at the point of interception. This point of interception
must remain accessible and not covered by any structure of any type.
            5.   Common ingress/egress. Where ingress and egress to and from
each dwelling unit is proposed through a shared access or driveway, a written
instrument that provides for common access to both portions of the property (or
all portions of the property as the division warrants) must be executed.
   (D)   PUD procedures. Each applicant requesting a PUD special use permit
shall comply with the procedural requirements as follows:
      (1)   New developments requesting a PUD special use permit must comply
with the standards set forth in
Chapter 151 of this code or ordinances (if applicable);
      (2)   The application shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission;
      (3)   When meeting initially with the Planning Commission, in addition to
the requirements contained in
Chapter 151 the developer is also required to present the following:
         (a)   Plat of survey for development; and
         (b)   Project narrative text addressing project location, site and
site characteristics, the proposed land uses and infrastructure improvements,
demographics of proposed occupants, projected impacts (positive and negative),
proposed project scheduling and/or phasing if appropriate, and any and all deed
restrictions and/or covenants for the proposed project.
      (4)   Upon receiving a favorable vote by the Planning Commission, the
application is then reviewed and voted on by the City Council; and
      (5)   Upon receiving a favorable vote by the City Council, the
application is then reviewed and voted on by the Zoning Board of Appeals. The
Zoning Board of Appeals has the authority to grant the special use request (see
§
152.151). If the application does not receive approval of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, the applicant may appeal as provided in §§
152.150 through
152.154.
   (E)   Recording of approved PUD development plan. Upon approval by the
Zoning Board of Appeals, the approved PUD development plan shall be signed by
all appropriate authorities as designated by city ordinances and other
appropriate codes and ordinances, and thereby recorded with the County Recorder
of Deeds.
   (F)   Changes in approved plans. Any expansion of a special use involving
the enlargement of the buildings, structures, and land area devoted to such
shall be subject to the procedures set forth in this subchapter. After a PUD
special use permit has been issued, minor changes in a development plan,
excluding exceptions already mentioned herein, may be made upon application to
the Zoning Board of Appeals. Major changes in the developmental plan require
total review and reapplication.
(1978 Code, § 17.61.020) (Ord. 2005-1, passed - -2005)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter shall upon conviction be punishable as set forth in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 17.68.020) (Ord. 368, passed - -1967)
CHAPTER 153: SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Office of the Building Official created
   
153.04   Building Official
   
153.05   Base flood elevation
   
153.06   Development permit
   
153.07   Preventing increased damages
   
153.08   Protecting buildings
   
153.09   Other development requirements
   
153.10   Variances
   
153.11   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city
by 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 11- 12-12, 11-30-2, 11-30-8, and 11-31-2 in order to
accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise development from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of building;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas; and
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the city by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.010) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceed in
any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100- YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in § 153.05.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than 180 days.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Human-made change to real estate, including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building valued at more than $1,000;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, construction of roads, or similar
projects;
         (d)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges, or
culverts;
         (e)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, or
other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface;
         (f)   Storage of materials; or
         (g)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as re-roofing; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and
similar agricultural practices that do not involve filling, grading, or
construction of levees.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FPE or FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot at any given location in the SFHA.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the SFHA required to store and convey the base
flood. The FLOODWAY for each of the SFHAs of the city shall be according to the
best data available to the State Water Survey Floodplain Information
Repository.
   RIVERINE SFHA. Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel. This term does not
include areas subject to flooding from lakes (except public bodies of water),
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the city that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The SFHAs of the
city are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the
city prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 6,
1984. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated the county that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed into the city
are generally identified as such on the flood hazard boundary map prepared for
the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated December 26,
1980.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.020) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.03 OFFICE OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL CREATED.
   There is created the Office of Building Official of the city, an
administrative office of the city. The Office shall be filled by appointment of
a person educated, trained, or experienced in construction practices or by
contract with another governmental inspection agency. The appointment or
contract shall be made by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City
Council.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.030) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.04 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official shall be responsible for the general administration
and enforcement of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the following
duties:
   (A)   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this chapter;
   (B)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (C)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the State
Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources for all development
projects subject to §
153.07, and maintain a record of such authorization;
   (D)   Maintain a record of the as built elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement), of all buildings subject to §
153.08;
   (E)   Maintain a record of the engineer’s certificate and the as built
flood-proofed elevation of all buildings subject to §
153.08(E);
   (F)   Inspect all development projects to ensure they comply with the
provisions of this chapter;
   (G)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
chapter. Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance Program;
and
   (H)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request base flood
data, SFHA maps, copies of federal or state permit documents, and as built
elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings constructed subject to this
chapter.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.040) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.05 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party may finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the State
Water Survey and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each of the SFHA’s delineated as an
unnumbered A Zone on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city shall be
according to the best data available to the State Water Survey Floodplain
Information Repository. When no base flood elevation exists, the base flood
elevation shall be the 100-year flood depth calculated according to the
formulas presented in Depth & Frequency of Floods in Illinois published by U.S.
Geological Survey, 1976.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for the SFHAs of those parts of the
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city or that may be annexed into the city shall be according to the best data
available to the State Water Survey Floodplain Information Repository.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.050) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.06 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the Building Official. The Building Official shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for a development permit shall be accompanied by
drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; existing
grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling;
the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and
the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed
buildings subject to the requirements of §
153.08.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Building Official shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation as of the date of the site’s first flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) identification, is not located in the SFHA and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Building Official shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first FIRM identification.
   (D)   The Building Official shall inform the applicant of any and all other
local, state, and federal permits that may be required for this type of
development activity. The Building Official shall not issue the development
permit unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.060) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.07 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or potentially damaging
increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and safety.
   (A)   Generally. Within all riverine SFHAs, the following standards shall
apply.
      (1)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway (or in a riverine SFHA
where no floodway has been identified) shall not be issued unless the applicant
first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is not required
from the State Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources,
issued pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/5 et seq.
      (2)   The following activities may be constructed without the individual
permit required in division (A)(1) above in accordance with statewide permits
issued by the State Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources,
provided the activities do not involve placement of fill, change of grade, or
construction in the normal channel. Such activities must still meet the other
requirements of this chapter.
         (a)   The construction of wells, septic tanks, and underground utility
lines not crossing a lake or stream;
         (b)   The construction of light poles, sign posts, and similar
structures;
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports;
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, nor ten feet in any dimension (e.g., animal shelters and
tool sheds); and
         (f)   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than 20%, which are located on the
upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which do not extend
beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to the flow of
flood water.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will not increase
the base flood elevation more than one foot for the affected hydraulic reach of
the stream and will not increase flood damage or potential flood damage.
   (B)   Public health standards in all SFHAs.
      (1)   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless such materials are
stored in a storage tank or flood-proofed building constructed according to the
requirements of §
153.08(E).
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other above ground openings
located below the FPE are water- tight.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.070) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.08 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
153.07, all buildings to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPE. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
         (b)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that
increase the floor area by more than 20% or the market value of the building by
more than 50%;
         (c)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are
valued at more than 50% of the market value of the building before the damage
occurred;
         (d)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning
a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
         (e)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
      (2)   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods. The Building Official shall maintain a record of compliance
with these building protection standards as required in §
153.04.
   (B)   A residential or nonresidential building may be constructed on
permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compaction;
      (2)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the FPE.
The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of the building
before sloping below the FPE;
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, rip rap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical; and
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
   (C)   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in accordance
with the following:
      (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
walls, stilts, piles, or other foundation provided:
         (a)   The walls have permanent openings no more than one foot above
grade; and
         (b)   The walls and floor are not subject to damage by hydrostatic
pressures associated with the base flood.
      (2)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and aligned
in relation to flood flows and adjacent structures so as to minimize exposure
to known hydrodynamic forces such as currents, waves, ice, and floating debris.
      (3)   All areas below the FPE shall be constructed of materials resistant
to flood damage. The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air- conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the FPE. Water and sewer pipes, electrical
and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other water-proofed service
facilities may be located below the FPE.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a site for
more than 180 days shall be:
      (1)   Elevated at or above the FPE in. accordance with divisions (B) and
(C) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied-down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for the State
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 210 ILCS 120/1 through 6.
   (E)   Only a nonresidential building may be flood- proofed in accordance
with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the building
has been designed so that below the FPE, the structure and attendant utility
facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the affects of the base
flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and
impacts from debris or ice.
      (2)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.080) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.09 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management, use, and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer parks,
annexation agreements, planned unit developments (PUDs), and additions to
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet the requirements of §§
153.07 and
153.08. Plats or plans for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, and
planned unit developments (PUDs) shall include a signed statement by a
registered professional engineer that the plat or plan accounts for changes in
the drainage of surface waters in accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/
2).
   (B)   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs), and additions to manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall include base flood elevation data and
floodway delineations. Where this information is not available from an existing
study filed with the State Water Survey, the applicant shall be responsible for
calculating the base flood elevation and the floodway delineation and
submitting it to the State Water Survey for review and approval as best
available regulatory data.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.090) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.10 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Planning Commission for a
variance. The Planning Commission shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council. The City
Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The provisions of §
153.06(C) are met; and
      (7)   The provisions of §
153.07(A) are met.
   (B)   The Building Official shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirement of §
153.08 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)    Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts that may be as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
153.08 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair, or alteration
of a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Illinois Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more
permissive than the requirements of division (A) above.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.100) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available
information derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
      (2)   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by man-
made or natural causes.
   (B)   (1)   This chapter does not imply that development either inside or
outside of the SFHA will be free from flooding or damage.
      (2)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the city or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.110) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Upon due investigation. the City Attorney may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exist. The city standards
shall notify the owner in writing of such violation. Upon due investigation,
the City Attorney may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of
this chapter exist. The City Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200; and
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(1978 Code, § 15.08.120) (Ord. 91-13, passed - -1991)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   License
   
154.03   Copy of state application to accompany city application
   
154.04   Duties of manager
   
154.05   Mobile home sites; minimum size other specifications
   
154.06   Water supply
   
154.07   Sewage and water-carried wastes; sewer connections
   
154.08   Garbage collection and removal
   
154.09   Lighting requirements
   
154.10   Fences
   
154.11   Compliance with regulations applicable to dwellings required
   
154.12   Human habitation deemed unlawful except in licensed mobile home parks
   
154.13   Storage of mobile homes permitted
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily, or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME shall include manufactured homes constructed
after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401
et seq. A MOBILE HOME includes any such structures resting in whole on a
permanent foundation, with wheels, tongue, and hitch permanently removed.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for ten or more mobile
homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for revenue purposes,
and includes any building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended
for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park. Separate ownership
of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude the tracts of land from common
licensure as a MOBILE HOME PARK if they are maintained and operated jointly.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.010) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988)
§ 154.02 LICENSE.
   (A)   Application; issuance.
      (1)   It is unlawful to establish, maintain, or operate any mobile home
park in the city without first having obtained a license therefor. Application
for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Clerk in compliance with the
ordinances relating to license applications, and shall contain the name of the
applicant, the location of the proposed park, and the number of mobile homes to
be accommodated, provided that a license shall be issued only if the proposed
mobile home park will accommodate ten or more mobile homes.
      (2)   Such license shall expire April 30 of each year and a new license
shall be issued upon proper application and payment of the annual license fee,
provided the applicant is in substantial compliance with the rules and
regulations of the State Department of Public Health and the ordinances of this
city insofar as they pertain to mobile home parks.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.020)
   (B)   Fee; maximum fee designated; fee prorated. The annual fee for such
licenses shall be $25 plus $2 for each mobile home space over ten for which
accommodations exist; provided, however, that the annual license fee shall not
exceed $50. If the number is increased, this shall be reported to the Clerk,
and the additional fee, if any, necessitated by such increase shall be paid
before the additional spaces are put to use. When a license is applied for, or
accommodations are increased during the license year, the fee shall be prorated
on the basis of the number of months remaining in the license year.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.040)
   (C)   Good character required. No such license shall be issued to any but a
person of good character, nor to any corporation if any officer thereof is not
a person of good character.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.050)
(Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 COPY OF STATE APPLICATION TO ACCOMPANY CITY APPLICATION.
   (A)   A copy of state application to accompany city application.
   (B)   Each application for a city license shall be accompanied by a copy of
the application to the state for:
      (1)   A permit to construct a new mobile home park;
      (2)   A license to conduct or operate a mobile home park;
      (3)   A permit to alter a licensed mobile home park; or
      (4)   A permit to reduce the number of licensed sites, as required in “An
Act to Provide for, License and Regulate Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Parks”
(210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.)
(1978 Code, § 5.20.030) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988)
§ 154.04 DUTIES OF MANAGER.
   Every park shall be managed by a responsible individual whose name, address,
and telephone number shall be on file at all times with the City Clerk and
whose duty it shall be to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in a
clean, orderly, and sanitary condition, and shall be responsible, with the
licensee, for any violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.060) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988)
§ 154.05 MOBILE HOME SITES; MINIMUM SIZE OTHER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Each mobile home shall be allotted a site of not less than 4,500
square feet with a minimum width of 45 feet. No mobile home shall be parked
closer than five feet to the side lot lines of a mobile home park, if the
abutting property is improved property, or closer than ten feet to a public
street, alley, or building.
   (B)   Each individual mobile home site shall abut or face on a driveway or
clear unoccupied space of not less than 25 feet in width, which space shall
have unobstructed access to a public highway or alley.
   (C)   There shall be an open space of at least ten feet between the sides of
every mobile home and at least five feet from the back lot line of every mobile
home site. Any accessory structures shall be “set in” a minimum of one foot
from the boundary line or lines of each mobile home site.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.070) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and domestic purposes from the
city water supply system shall be supplied to meet the requirements of the
mobile home park. A water meter shall be installed in each such park.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.080) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 SEWAGE AND WATER-CARRIED WASTES; SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All sewage and other water-carried wastes shall be disposed of into a
municipal sewerage system whenever the interceptor or sewer main of such system
is adjacent to the park. In parks in which such connections are not available,
disposal shall be into a private system which includes a sanitary means of
disposal, the operation of which creates neither a nuisance nor a menace to
health.
   (B)   When a water carriage system of sewage is used, each site shall be
provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid waste outlet or
outlets of each mobile home. It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of
said park to provide an approved type of water and odor-tight connection from
the mobile home water drainage to the sewer connection, and it shall be the
duty of said owner or operator to make such connection and keep all occupied
mobile homes connected to said sewer while located in the park. Sewer
connections in unoccupied sites shall be so closed that they will emit no odors
or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or waste shall be allowed to fall
on the ground from a mobile home.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.090) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 GARBAGE COLLECTION AND REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or his or her agent or manager to provide
for the collection and removal of garbage or other waste material and to
otherwise maintain the park in a clean and sanitary condition.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.100) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   The parks shall be kept properly and adequately lighted at all times so that
the ground shall be safe for occupants and visitors.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.110) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 FENCES.
   (A)   All fences shall be set in a minimum of one foot from the boundary
lines of each mobile home site.
   (B)   Fences constructed in the front yard shall be no higher than 42 inches
from the ground.
   (C)   Fences constructed in the rear and side yard shall not exceed eight
feet in height from the ground.
   (D)   A fence at least six feet in height from the ground shall enclose all
swimming pools to prevent unauthorized entry into the pool area.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.120) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.11 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO DWELLINGS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to occupy for sleeping or other residence purposes any mobile
home unless such mobile home complies with the ordinances of this city relating
to the wiring, plumbing, sewer facilities, and other regulations applicable to
dwellings.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.130) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.12 HUMAN HABITATION DEEMED UNLAWFUL EXCEPT IN LICENSED MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to maintain, conduct, or
operate any mobile home, used for human habitation, upon any plot of ground in
the city except in a licensed mobile home park on or after January 1, 1966;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any mobile home at its
location prior to January 1, 1966.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.140) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.13 STORAGE OF MOBILE HOMES PERMITTED.
   Nothing in this, chapter shall be construed to prohibit the storage of any
mobile home for any length of time when said mobile home is not used for living
or sleeping purposes.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.150) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be punishable as set out in §
10.99.
(1978 Code, § 5.20.160) (Ord. 88-12, passed - -1988)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   STREET AND ALLEY VACATIONS
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
      
V.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
540      - -1980      A franchise granted to the Nashville Cablevision
                      Corporation
(1978 Code, Ch. 5.24)  
                     
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed    Description
551      - -1981        Intergovernmental law enforcement agreement
(1978 Code, § 2.48.010) 
                        Authorizing the execution of a water purchase contract
2009-3   4-2-2009       between the city, the county, the state, and the
                        Villages of Hoyleton and New Minden, Washington County,
                        Illinois
2010-10  12-2-2012      Approving a right-of-way license agreement with Delta
                        Communications, Inc.
                       
 
TABLE III: STREET AND ALLEY VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
47    - -    Vacating an alley in T.B. Needles Subdivision of lots seven and eight of block
             three of Morgan’s Addition
48    - -    Vacating an alley in block one of Barger and Vernors’ Additions
             Vacates an alley, reserved in a deed from John Huegely Sr. to Mary Router
75    - -    recorded in book 66 of deeds, page 425, on the east side of the north half of
             out-lot four of Morgan’s Addition and on the north side of Maple Street
             Vacating that part of High Street from Kaskaskia Street on the east to
             Lafayette Street on the west, and bounded on the north by lots seven and 34 and
128   - -    on the south by lots eight and 33, and laid out and platted in Flaxbeard’s
             Addition. Vacating that part of High Street at a point where a large culvert is
             located and opens said street further south
             Vacating part of an alley in block three of Mitchell’s Subdivision of out-lots
175   - -    one and two of Morgan’s Addition between lots three, four, and five of said
             block, and lots six, seven, and eight of said block
             Vacates parts of an alley in High School Addition between lots one, two, and
176   - -    three and lot 32 and part of said alley between lots four, five, and six and
             lot seven
193   - -    Vacating the south 92 feet at the alley, in Hay’s Subdivision, on the west ten
             feet of lot 14 of block six
             Vacating that part of the street which lies south of the south line of Adams
271   - -    Street and north of the north line of Lebanon Street, and bounded on the west
             by block eight at Morgan’s Addition and on the east by Hoffman’s Addition
             Vacating that part of the street which lies north at the north line of East
304   - -    Adams Street and South of the south line, as extended easterly, at lot one,
             block five of Morgan’s Addition, and bounded on the west by lot 14 of block
             five of Morgan’s Addition and on the east by Hoffman’s Addition
338   - -    Vacating part of an unnamed street in M.M. Goodner’s First Addition. Vacating
             part of an alley in block three at Mitchell’s Subdivision
355   - -    Vacating alley in block four of Mitchell’s Subdivision
372   - -    Vacating the west ten feet of Buhrman Street between the south line of Chester
             Street and the north line of Center Street
392   - -    Vacating the 20-foot alley between lot four and lots one, two, and three of
             block five of H.B. Anderson’s Addition
502   - -    Vacating the 15-foot alley between Grand Avenue and Trout Street in block three
             of J.J. Troutt’s Addition
506   - -    Vacating alley between lots 25 through 35 and lots 26 through 36 in Barger’s
             Addition
579   - -    Vacating all that part of Belleville Street which runs north and south and lies
             east of lots 6, 7, and 8 in Brink and Jones’ Second Addition
88-6  - -    Vacating the east 141.8 feet of the alley running from Kaskaskia Street to
             North Mill Street and lying between Second Street and Third Street
89-9  - -    Vacating a part of Ella Street in Flaxbeard’s Addition to the city, lying west
             of Lafayette Street
96-5  - -    Vacating all that part of the alley in Mitchell’s Subdivision to the city,
             lying between North Buhrman Street and North Mitchell Street
             Vacating the alley lying between lot one in block three and lot five in block
98-3A - -    four of Barger and Vernor’s Addition to the city, which runs south from Alton
             Street to the end of the parking lot owned by Washington Lodge A.M. & F.M. #55
2001- - -    Vacating the alley lying between lots six and seven in block four of H.B.
4            Anderson’s Addition to the city
2007-        Vacating the alley lying between lots one, two, three, four, five, and six and
1     - -    lots seven, eight, nine, ten, and 11, all in block five of Burns’ Bros.
             Addition to the city
2007- - -    Vacates the west 64 feet of Elm Street in Green and Bernreuter’s Addition to
6            the city
2016- 2-4-   Vacates a portion of Willowbrook Estates subdivision, and a lot in the Sturman-
1     2016   Wilson subdivision of the city
            
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2011- 10-6-  Annexing certain territory to the city, said territory lying within the city
3     2011   community fire protection district, but not within any public library district
2011- 12-15- Annexing certain territory to the city, said territory lying within the city
7     2011   community fire protection district, but not within any public library district
2014- 4-17-  Annexing 8.6 acres of territory in the city, said territory lying within the
3     2014   city community fire protection district, but not within any public library
             district, being Parcel No. 10-12-01-400-15D
2014- 9-4-   Annexing two tracts of land in the city containing 16 acres, said territory
8     2014   lying within the city community fire protection district, but not within any
             public library district, being Parcel No. 95-02-13-07- 300-038D
2015- 10-15- Annexing two tracts of certain territory attached as “Exhibit A” to Ord. 2015-
11    2015   11, being Parcel Nos. 95-10-12-12-400-048 and 95-10-12-12-400-046
             Annexing a tract of certain territory contains 5 acres, more or less, and is
2016- 6-16-  shown on the amended plat of survey dated 5-23-2016 and attached to Ord. 2016-
3     2016   3 as the “Annexation Area,” being Parcel Nos. 10-12-14-479-001 and 10-12-14-
             479-003(D)
2016- 7-21-  Annexing a tract of certain territory containing 2 acres, more or less, and is
5     2016   shown on the plat of survey attached to Ord. 2016-5 and dated 7-1-2016, as the
             “Annexation Area,” being Parcel No. 95-02-13-18-300-004(D)
             Annexing two tracts of Patel/Gopal property (Tract A: Parcel Nos. 02-13-06-300-
2017- 11-2-  016(D), 02-13-06-300-017(D), 02-13-06-300-019(D), containing .16 acres, more or
6     2017   less) and (Tract B: Parcel No. 02-13-06-100-020(D), containing .02 acres, more
             or less)
2017- 11-2-  Annexing tracts of Nolo Logistics LLC property (Parcel Nos. 02-13-06-300-010,
7     2017   02-13-06-300-011, 02-13-06-300-012, 02-13-06-300-013, 02-13-06-300-016, 02-13-
             06-300-017, 02-13-06-300- 017, 02-13-06-300-019, 02-13-06-300-020)
2017- 11-2-  Annexing Kirchner Properties Belleville LLC, D/B/A KPNA (Parcel No. 10-12-01-
8     2017   200-022)
2018- 12-20- Annexing Parcel No. 95-10-12-23-176-001(D), containing 1.3 acres, more or less
8     2018
2020- 5-7-   Annexing Parcel No. 02-13-07-100-011(D), containing 2.9 acres, more or less
3     2020
2021- 4-1-   Annexing Parcel No. 02-13-07-300-041, containing 12.02 acres, more or less
2     2021
            
 
TABLE V: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2011-4   11-3-2011   Rezoning territory in the city from R-1 One-Family
                     Residence District to B-1 General Business District
2012-1   2-2-2012    Rezoning territory in the city from R-1 One-Family
                     Residence District to M-1 General Manufacturing District
                     Rezoning territory in the city containing 8.6 acres
2014-4   4-17-2014   (Parcel No. 10-12-01-400-15D) from R-1 One-Family District
                     to M-1 General Manufacturing District
                     Rezoning two tracts of land in the city containing 16
2014-9   9-4-2014    acres (Parcel No. 95-02-13- 07-300-038D) from R-1 One-
                     Family Residence District to M-1 General Manufacturing
                     District
                     Rezoning two tracts of land in the city (Parcel Nos. 95-
2015-12  10-15-2015  10-12-12-400-048 and 95-10-12-12-400-046) from R-1 One-
                     Family Residence District to M-1 General Manufacturing
                     District
                     Rezoning Nolo Logistics LLC property (Parcel Nos. 02-13-
                     06-300-010, 02-13-06-300-011, 02-13-06-300-012, 02-13-06-
2017-9   11-2-2017   300-013, 02-13-06-300-016, 02-13-06-300-017, 02-13-06-300-
                     017, 02-13-06-300-019, 02-13-06-300-020) from R-1 One-
                     Family Residence District to M-1 General Manufacturing
                     District
                     Rezoning Kirchner Properties Belleville LLC, D/B/A KPNA
2017-10  11-2-2017   (Parcel No. 10-12-01-200-022) from R-1 One-Family
                     Residence District to M-1 General Manufacturing District
                     Rezoning Howard property fronting on Adams Street, Lots 6
2018-2   6-7-18      and 7 in Block 8 of the Original Town of Nashville from R-
                     2 General Residence District to B-1 General Business
                     District
                     Rezoning annexed Parcel No. 02-13-07-100-011(D) from R-
2020-4   5-7-2020    1 One- Family Residence District to M-1 General
                     Manufacturing District
                     Rezoning annexed Parcel No. 02-13-07-300-041 from R-1 One-
2021-3   4-1-2021    Family Residence District to M-1 General Manufacturing
                     District
                     Rezoning Parcel Nos. 10-12-24-132-008 and 10-12-24-132-009
2021-4   6-3-2021    from R-2 General Residence District to B-1 General
                     Business District
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1978 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                       Code Section
5 ILCS/1 et seq.                   10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.01                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                        10.04
5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq.             152.135,
                                   152.153
5 ILCS 425 et seq.                 31.05
5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.               31.05
5 ILCS 425/35                      31.05
5 ILCS 425/83                      31.05
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.             31.06
5 ILCS 430/5-15                    31.06
5 ILCS 430/5-65                    31.01
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40     31.06
5 ILCS 430/15-10                   31.01
5 ILCS 430/50-5                    31.06
5 ILCS 430/70-5                    31.06
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                 31.06
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                 31.06
20 ILCS 2520/1 et seq.             32.02
30 ILCS 565/1 et seq.              151.111
35 ILCS 105                        32.17
35 ILCS 115/9                      32.16
35 ILCS 120/3                      32.15
35 ILCS 200/1 et seq.              32.02
35 ILCS 615/1 et seq.              52.10,
                                   52.21
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.              32.30
50 ILCS 4                          111.03
50 ILCS 5                          111.03
50 ILCS 5/4-1                      Ch. 112
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.              31.03
50 ILCS 820/4                      111.03
50 ILCS 820/5                      111.03
50 ILCS 820/6                      111.03
65 ILCS 5                          10.02,
                                   10.99
65 ILCS 5/Art. II                  31.33
65 ILCS 5/Art. III                 31.33
65 ILCS 5 Div. 13, Art. 11         152.001
65 ILCS 5 Div. 13, Art. 11, Ch. 24 152.130
65 ILCS 5 Div. 95                  31.32
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                    10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 et seq.            10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                    153.01
65 ILCS 5/3-7-1                    31.30,
                                   31.31
65 ILCS 5/3-7-3                    31.17
65 ILCS 5/3-10-1 through 3-10-67   31.16
65 ILCS 5/3-10-7                   31.04,
                                   31.15
65 ILCS 5/3-11-29                  31.30
65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1                  10.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5                 31.30
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-140               31.30
65 ILCS 5/5 et seq.                153.07
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                   32.15
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                   32.30
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5                   32.16
65 ILCS 5/8-11-6                   32.16,
                                   32.17
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                   135.01
65 ILCS 5/11-2-4                   31.33
65 ILCS 5/11-2-5                   31.33
                                   131.01,
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1                   132.01,
                                   132.02
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2                   134.02
                                   131.01,
65 ILCS 5/11-5-3                   132.01,
                                   132.02,
                                   133.01
                                   131.01,
65 ILCS 5/11-5-4                   132.01,
                                   132.02,
                                   133.01
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4                   Ch. 92
65 ILCS 5/11-12-7                  151.035
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8                  151.040
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                 153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1                  Ch. 152
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1.1                152.150
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3                  Ch. 152
65 ILCS 5/11-13-4                  152.152
65 ILCS 5/11-13-5                  Ch. 152,
                                   152.151
65 ILCS 5/11-13-6                  152.153
65 ILCS 5/11-13-7                  152.153
65 ILCS 5/11-13-7a                 152.153
65 ILCS 5/11-13-11                 152.153
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14                 152.013
65 ILCS 5/11-13-19                 Ch. 152
65 ILCS 5/11-15-1                  Ch. 151
65 ILCS 5/11-20-5                  Ch. 150
65 ILCS 5/11-20-6                  92.021
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                  92.021
65 ILCS 5/11-20-9                  Ch. 90
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                  153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-4                  Ch. 150
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                  153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                  153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2                  Ch. 92
65 ILCS 5/11-80-3                  Ch. 91
65 ILCS 5/11-80-8                  91.002
65 ILCS 5/11-80-10                 Ch. 91
65 ILCS 5/11-80-11                 Ch. 91
65 ILCS 5/11-95-3                  31.32
65 ILCS 5/11-208                   Ch. 71
65 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502    72.02
70 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.           151.035
70 ILCS 405/22.02a                 151.035
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.             154.03
210 ILCS 120/1 through 6           153.08
220 ILCS 5/2-202                   32.30
220 ILCS 5/9-221                   32.30
220 ILCS 5/9-222                   32.30
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1                 32.30
220 ILCS 20/1 et seq.              52.03
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.             50.068
225 ILCS 320                       51.24
225 ILCS 465/1 et seq.             110.02
225 ILCS 465/4 through 465/8       110.01
235 ILCS 5/1-1                     112.05
235 ILCS 5/1-2                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.2-4                 112.02
410 ILCS 535/7                     31.04,
                                   31.15
415 ILCS 5                         51.24
425 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq.           151.111
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.           72.15
625 ILCS 5/1-101.8                 72.15
625 ILCS 5/1-123.9                 72.15
625 ILCS 5/1-153.1                 72.15
625 ILCS 5/1-168.8                 72.15
625 ILCS 5/1-188                   10.02
625 ILCS 5/4-207                   92.020
625 ILCS 5/4-208                   92.020
625 ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.           72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-207                  Title VII
625 ILCS 5/11-208                  Title VII
                                   Ch. 74, Sch. II;
625 ILCS 5/11-208(1)               Ch. 74, Sch. IV;
                                   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
625 ILCS 5/11-208(2)               Ch. 70
625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502   72.16
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1               72.02,
                                   72.16
625 ILCS 5/12-201                  72.16
625 ILCS 5/12-709                  72.02,
                                   72.16
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.           134.03
720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq.           132.02
720 ILCS 5/21-1 et seq.            134.01
720 ILCS 5/21-3                    134.02
                                   131.01,
720 ILCS 5/26-1                    132.01,
                                   132.02,
                                   133.01
720 ILCS 555/1                     135.01
740 ILCS 174/15(a)                 31.01
740 ILCS 174/15(b)                 31.01
765 ILCS 205/2                     153.09
775 ILCS 5/6-101                   31.01
820 ILCS 130/1                     31.02
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.             151.110
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO 1978 CODE
1978 Code Section Code Section
1978 Code Section Code Section
1.04.010          10.02
1.08.010          10.99
2.04.010          30.01
2.04.020          30.01
2.04.030          30.03
2.04.040          30.04
2.04.050          30.05
2.04.060          30.06
2.04.070          30.07
2.04.080          30.07
2.04.090          30.07
2.08.010          31.15
2.08.020          31.15
2.08.030          31.15
2.08.040          31.15
2.08.050          31.15
2.08.060          31.15
2.08.070          31.15
2.12.010          31.16
2.16.010          31.17
2.16.020          31.17
2.16.030          31.17
2.16.040          31.17
2.20.010          31.30
2.20.020          31.30
2.20.030          31.30
2.20.040          31.30
2.20.050          31.30
2.20.060          31.30
2.20.070          31.30
2.20.080          31.30
2.24.010          31.31
2.24.020          31.31
2.24.030          31.31
2.24.040          31.31
2.28.010          31.32
2.28.020          31.32
2.28.030          31.32
2.28.040          31.32
2.28.050          31.32
2.28.060          31.32
2.32.010          31.33
2.32.020          31.33
2.32.030          31.33
2.32.040          31.33
2.32.050          31.33
2.32.060          31.33
2.32.070          31.33
2.32.080          31.33
2.36.010          31.34
2.36.020          31.34
2.36.030          31.34
2.36.040          31.34
2.36.050          31.34
2.36.060          31.34
2.36.070          31.34
2.36.080          31.34
2.36.090          31.34
2.36.100          31.34
2.36.110          31.34
2.40.010          30.08
2.44.010          31.04
2.44.020          31.04
2.44.030          31.04
2.44.040          31.04
2.44.050          31.04
2.48.010          TSO II
3.04.010          32.01
3.08.010          32.15
3.08.020          32.15
3.08.030          32.15
3.12.010          32.16
3.12.020          32.16
3.12.030          32.16
3.16.010          32.17
3.16.020          32.17
3.20.010          32.18
3.20.020          32.18
3.20.030          32.18
3.20.040          32.18
3.20.050          32.18
3.20.060          32.18
3.20.070          32.18
3.20.080          32.18
3.20.090          32.18
3.20.100          32.18
3.20.110          32.18
3.24.010          32.30
3.24.020          32.30
3.24.030          32.30
3.24.040          32.30
3.24.050          32.30
3.24.060          32.30
3.24.070          32.99
3.24.080          32.30
3.28.010          32.02
3.28.020          32.02
3.28.030          32.02
3.28.040          32.02
3.28.050          32.02
3.28.060          32.02
3.28.070          32.02
3.28.080          32.02
3.28.090          32.02
3.28.100          32.02
3.28.110          32.02
3.28.120          32.02
3.28.130          32.02
3.28.140          32.02
3.28.150          32.02
3.28.160          32.02
3.28.170          32.02
3.28.180          32.02
5.04.010          112.01
5.04.020          112.02
5.04.030          112.02
5.04.040          112.03
5.04.050          112.03
5.04.060          112.03
5.04.070          112.03
5.04.080          112.03
5.04.090          112.04
5.04.110          112.05
5.04.140          112.06
5.04.150          112.07
5.04.160          112.08
5.04.180          112.99
5.04.170          112.99
5.08.010          110.01
5.08.020          110.02
5.12.010          110.15
5.12.020          110.16
5.12.030          110.16
5.12.040          110.17
5.12.050          110.18
5.12.060          110.16
5.12.070          110.16
5.12.080          110.16
5.12.090          110.16
5.12.100          110.19
5.12.110          110.20
5.12.120          110.21
5.12.130          110.22
5.12.140          110.23
5.12.150          110.99
5.14.010          110.35
5.14.020          110.36
5.14.030          110.37
5.16.010          70.45
5.16.020          70.46
5.16.030          70.99
5.20.010          154.01
5.20.020          154.02
5.20.030          154.03
5.20.040          154.02
5.20.050          154.02
5.20.060          154.04
5.20.070          154.05
5.20.080          154.06
5.20.090          154.07
5.20.100          154.08
5.20.110          154.09
5.20.120          154.10
5.20.130          154.10
5.20.140          154.12
5.20.150          154.13
5.20.160          150.99
Ch. 5.24          TSO I
5.28.010          110.99
5.28.020          111.02
5.28.030          111.03
5.28.040          111.04
5.28.050          111.05
5.28.060          111.06
5.28.070          111.99
6.04.010          90.01
6.04.020          90.02
6.04.030          90.01
6.04.040          90.03
6.04.050          90.01
6.08.010          90.15
6.08.020          90.16
6.12.010          90.30
6.12.020          90.31
6.12.030          90.32
6.12.040          90.32
6.12.050          90.33
8.04.010          91.001,
                  91.999
8.04.020          91.001,
                  91.999
8.08.010          92.001
8.12.010          92.035
8.12.020          92.036
8.12.030          92.036
8.12.040          92.036
8.12.050          92.036
8.12.060          92.037
8.12.070          92.036
8.12.080          92.038
8.12.090          92.039
8.12.100          92.999
8.16.010          92.015
8.16.060          92.019
8.16.050          92.999
8.20.010          92.002
8.20.020          92.002
8.20.030          92.002
8.20.040          92.999
8.20.050          92.999
8.24.010          92.021
8.24.020          92.021
8.24.030          92.999
8.24.040          92.021
8.28.010          92.050
8.28.020          92.051
8.28.030          92.052
8.28.040          92.053
8.28.050          92.054
8.28.060          92.055
8.28.070          92.056
8.32.010          92.070
8.32.020          92.071
8.32.030          92.072
8.32.040          92.073
8.32.050          92.074
8.32.060          92.999
9.12.010          132.01
9.16.010          132.02
9.20.010          133.01
9.24.010          133.02,
                  133.99
9.28.010          133.03
9.28.020          133.03
9.28.030          133.03
9.28.040          133.99
9.32.010          133.04
9.36.010          133.05
9.36.020          133.05
9.36.030          133.99
9.40.010          134.01
9.40.020          134.01
9.40.030          134.01
9.40.040          134.01
9.44.010          134.02
9.44.020          134.02
9.44.030          134.99
9.48.010          134.03
9.48.020          134.03
9.48.030          134.99
9.64.010          136.01
9.64.020          136.99
10.04.010         70.15
10.04.020         70.16
10.04.030         70.17
10.04.040         70.17
10.04.050         70.99
10.08.010         70.01
10.08.020         70.02
10.08.030         70.99
10.12.010         Ch. 74, Sch. II
10.12.020         71.01
10.12.030         Ch. 74, Sch. III
10.12.040         71.02
10.12.050         71.03;
                  Ch. 74, Sch. IV
10.12.060         Ch. 74, Sch. V
                  Ch. 74, Sch. II;
10.12.070         Ch. 74, Sch. III;
                  Ch. 74, Sch. IV
10.16.010         71.15
10.16.020         71.99
10.20.010         92.020
10.20.020         92.020
10.20.030         92.020
10.20.040         92.020
10.20.050         92.020
10.20.060         92.999
10.24.010         70.30
10.24.020         70.31
10.24.030         70.32
10.24.040         Ch. 73, Sch. I
10.24.050         Ch. 73, Sch. II
10.24.060         Ch. 73, Sch. III
10.24.070         Ch. 73, Sch. IV
10.24.080         Ch. 74, Sch. I
10.24.090         Ch. 74, Sch. II
10.24.100         Ch. 73, Sch. V
10.24.110         Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                  70.99;
                  Ch. 73, Sch. I;
                  Ch. 73, Sch. II;
10.24.120         Ch. 73, Sch. III;
                  Ch. 73, Sch. IV;
                  Ch. 73, Sch. V;
                  Ch. 73, Sch. VI;
                  Ch. 74, Sch. II
10.28.010         Ch. 73, Sch. VII
12.04.010         91.015
12.04.020         91.016
12.04.030         91.017
12.04.040         91.018
12.04.050         91.018
12.04.070         91.019
12.04.080         91.020
12.04.090         91.021
12.04.100         91.022
12.04.110         91.023
12.04.120         91.023
12.04.130         91.023
12.04.140         91.024
12.04.150         91.025
12.08.010         91.040,
                  91.999
12.08.020         91.041
12.08.030         91.042
12.08.040         91.043
12.08.050         91.044,
                  91.999
12.08.060         91.045
12.08.070         91.046
12.08.080         91.046
12.08.090         91.046,
                  91.999
12.08.100         91.046
12.08.110         91.047
12.08.120         91.048,
                  91.999
12.08.130         91.048
12.08.140         91.048,
                  91.999
12.08.150         91.049
12.08.160         91.050
12.08.170         91.051
12.08.180         91.052,
                  91.999
12.08.190         91.053
12.08.200         91.054
12.08.210         91.055
12.08.220         91.056
12.08.230         91.057
12.08.240         91.058
12.12.010         91.002
12.12.020         91.999
12.16.010         91.070
12.16.020         91.071
12.16.030         91.072
12.16.040         91.072
12.16.041         91.073
12.16.042         91.074
12.16.050         91.999
12.16.060         91.999
12.20.010         91.003
12.20.020         91.003
12.20.030         91.003
12.20.040         91.999
13.04.010         50.001
13.04.020         50.002
13.04.030         50.003
13.04.040         50.004
13.04.050         50.004
13.04.060         50.004
13.04.070         50.005
13.04.080         50.005
13.04.090         50.005
13.04.100         50.005
13.04.120         50.006
13.04.130         50.007
13.04.135         50.008
13.04.140         50.009
13.04.150         50.010
13.04.160         50.010
13.04.170         50.011
13.04.180         50.012
13.04.190         50.013
13.04.200         50.014
13.04.210         50.015
13.04.220         50.016
13.04.240         50.017
13.04.250         50.017
13.04.260         50.018
13.04.270         50.019
13.04.280         50.020
13.04.300         50.021
13.04.310         50.022
13.04.330         50.023
13.04.340         50.024
13.04.350         50.024
13.04.360         50.999
13.06.010         50.035
13.06.020         50.036
13.06.030         50.037
13.06.040         50.038
13.06.050         50.039
13.06.060         50.040
13.06.070         50.041
13.06.080         50.042
13.06.090         50.042
13.06.100         50.042
13.06.110         50.042
13.06.120         50.043
13.06.130         50.044
13.06.140         50.045
13.06.150         50.046
13.06.160         50.047
13.06.170         50.048
13.06.180         50.049
13.06.190         50.050
13.07.010         51.01
13.07.020         51.02
13.07.030         51.03
13.07.040         51.04
13.07.050         51.05
13.07.060         51.06
13.07.070         51.07
13.07.080         51.20
13.07.090         51.21
13.07.100         51.22
13.07.110         51.23
13.07.120         51.24
13.07.130         51.25
13.07.140         51.26
13.07.150         51.27
13.07.160         51.28
13.07.170         51.29
13.07.180         51.99
13.08.010         50.065
13.08.020         50.066
13.08.030         50.067
13.08.040         50.068
13.08.050         50.068
13.08.060         50.068
13.08.080         50.068
13.08.090         50.068
13.08.100         50.068
13.08.110         50.068
13.08.120         50.069
13.08.130         50.068
13.08.140         50.069
13.08.150         50.070
13.08.175         50.071
13.08.180         50.072
13.08.190         50.072
13.08.210         50.073
13.08.200         50.072
13.08.220         50.072
13.08.230         50.072
13.08.240         50.072
13.08.250         50.072
13.08.260         50.072
13.08.270         50.072
13.08.280         50.072
13.08.290         50.074
13.08.300         50.074
13.08.310         50.074
13.08.320         50.074
13.08.330         50.074
13.08.340         50.075
13.08.350         50.076
13.08.360         50.077
13.08.370         50.078
13.08.380         50.079
13.08.390         50.079
13.08.400         50.079
13.08.410         50.080
13.08.420         50.081
13.08.430         50.082
13.08.440         50.083
13.08.450         50.084
13.08.470         50.085
13.08.720         50.086
13.08.730         50.087
13.08.740         50.088
13.08.750         50.088
13.08.760         50.090
13.08.770         50.090
13.08.780         50.091
13.08.790         50.092
13.08.800         50.092
13.08.810         50.092
13.08.820         50.093
13.08.830         50.999
13.08.840         50.999
13.08.850         50.999
13.12.010         52.01
13.12.015         52.02
13.12.020         52.03
13.12.030         52.04
13.12.040         52.05
13.12.050         52.06
13.12.060         52.07
13.12.070         52.08
13.12.080         52.09
13.12.090         52.10
13.12.100         52.11
13.12.110         52.12
13.12.120         52.13
13.12.130         52.14
13.12.140         52.15
13.12.150         52.16
13.12.160         52.17
13.12.170         52.18
13.12.180         52.19
13.12.190         52.20
13.12.200         52.21
13.12.210         52.22
13.12.220         52.23
13.12.230         52.24
13.12.240         52.25
13.12.250         52.99
13.16.010         53.01
13.16.020         53.02
13.16.030         53.03
13.16.040         53.04
13.16.050         53.05
13.16.060         53.06
13.16.070         53.07
13.16.080         53.08
13.16.090         53.09
13.16.100         53.99
13.20.010         54.01
13.20.020         54.02
13.20.030         54.03
13.24.010         55.01
13.24.020         55.02
13.24.030         55.03
13.24.040         55.04
15.04.010         150.01
15.04.020         150.02
15.04.030         150.03
15.04.040         150.04
15.04.050         150.04
15.04.060         150.05
15.08.010         153.01
15.08.020         153.02
15.08.030         153.03
15.08.040         153.04
15.08.050         153.05
15.08.060         153.06
15.08.070         153.07
15.08.080         153.08
15.08.090         153.09
15.08.100         153.10
15.08.110         153.11
15.08.120         153.99
15.12.010         150.20
15.12.020         150.21
15.12.030         150.22
15.12.040         150.23
15.12.050         150.99
15.16.010         150.35
15.16.020         150.36
15.16.030         150.36
15.16.040         150.38
15.16.050         150.99
15.20.010         150.50
15.20.020         150.51
15.20.030         150.52
15.20.040         150.53
15.20.050         150.54
15.20.060         150.54
15.20.070         150.56
15.20.080         150.57
15.20.090         150.58
15.20.100         150.59
15.20.110         150.60
15.20.120         150.61
15.20.130         150.62
15.20.140         150.63
15.20.150         150.64
15.20.160         150.65
15.20.170         150.65
15.20.180         150.65
15.20.190         150.99
15.20.200         150.66
16.04.010         151.001
16.04.020         151.002
16.04.030         151.003
16.04.040         151.999
16.08.010         151.004
16.12.010         151.015
16.12.020         151.016
16.12.030         151.017
16.12.040         151.018
16.12.050         151.018
16.12.060         151.018
16.12.070         151.019
16.12.080         151.019
16.12.090         151.019
16.12.100         151.019
16.12.110         151.020
16.12.120         151.021
16.16.010         151.035
16.16.020         151.036
16.16.030         151.037
16.16.040         151.038
16.16.050         151.039
16.16.060         151.040
16.16.070         151.041
16.16.080         151.042
16.20.010         151.055
16.20.020         151.056
16.20.030         151.057
16.24.010         151.070
16.24.020         151.071
16.24.030         151.072
16.24.040         151.073
16.24.050         151.074
16.24.060         151.075
16.24.070         151.076
16.24.080         151.077
16.28.010         151.090
16.28.020         151.091
16.28.030         151.092
16.28.040         151.093
16.28.050         151.093
16.28.070         151.096
16.28.080         151.097
16.28.090         151.098
16.32.010         151.110
16.32.020         151.110
16.32.030         151.110
16.32.040         151.110
16.32.050         151.110
16.32.060         151.110
16.32.070         151.110
16.32.080         151.111
16.32.090         151.111
16.32.100         151.111
16.32.110         151.111
16.32.120         151.111
16.32.130         151.111
16.32.140         151.111
16.32.150         151.111
16.32.160         151.111
16.32.170         151.111
16.32.180         151.111
16.32.190         151.111
16.32.200         151.111
16.32.210         151.111
16.32.220         151.111
16.32.230         151.111
16.32.240         151.111
16.32.250         151.111
16.32.260         151.111
16.32.270         151.111
16.32.280         151.111
16.32.290         151.111
16.32.300         151.111
16.32.310         151.111
16.32.320         151.111
16.32.330         151.111
16.32.340         151.111
16.32.350         151.111
16.32.360         151.112
16.32.370         151.112
16.32.380         151.112
16.32.390         151.112
16.32.400         151.112
16.32.410         151.112
16.32.420         151.112
16.32.430         151.112
16.32.440         151.112
16.32.450         151.112
16.32.460         151.112
16.32.470         151.112
16.32.480         151.112
16.32.490         151.112
16.32.500         151.112
16.32.510         151.112
16.32.520         151.112
16.32.530         151.112
16.32.540         151.112
16.32.550         151.112
16.32.560         151.112
16.32.570         151.112
16.32.580         151.112
16.32.590         151.112
16.32.600         151.112
16.32.610         151.112
16.32.620         151.112
16.32.630         151.112
16.32.640         151.112
16.32.650         151.112
16.32.660         151.112
16.32.670         151.112
16.32.680         151.113
16.32.690         151.113
16.32.700         151.113
16.32.710         151.113
16.32.720         151.113
16.32.730         151.113
16.32.740         151.113
16.32.750         151.113
16.32.760         151.113
16.32.770         151.113
16.32.780         151.113
16.32.790         151.113
16.32.800         151.113
16.32.810         151.113
16.32.820         151.113
16.32.830         151.113
16.32.840         151.113
16.32.850         151.113
16.32.860         151.114
16.32.870         151.114
16.32.880         151.114
16.32.890         151.114
16.32.900         151.114
16.32.910         151.114
16.32.920         151.114
16.32.930         151.114
16.32.940         151.114
16.32.950         151.114
16.32.960         151.114
16.32.970         151.114
16.32.980         151.114
16.32.990         151.114
16.32.1000        151.115
16.32.1010        151.115
16.32.1020        151.115
16.32.1030        151.115
16.32.1040        151.115
16.32.1050        151.115
16.32.1060        151.116
16.32.1070        151.116
16.32.1080        151.116
16.32.1090        151.116
16.32.1100        151.116
16.32.1110        151.117
16.36.010         151.130
16.36.020         151.131
16.36.030         151.132
16.40.010         151.999
16.40.020         151.999
17.04.010         152.001
17.04.020         152.002
17.04.030         152.003
17.04.040         152.004
17.04.050         152.005
17.04.060         152.006
17.04.070         152.007
17.04.075         152.008
17.04.080         152.009
17.04.090         152.010
17.04.100         152.011
17.04.110         152.011
17.08.020         152.012
17.08.030         152.012
17.08.040         152.012
17.08.050         152.012
17.08.060         152.012
17.08.070         152.012
17.08.080         152.012
17.08.090         152.012
17.08.100         152.012
17.08.110         152.012
17.08.120         152.012
17.08.130         152.012
17.08.140         152.012
17.08.150         152.012
17.08.160         152.012
17.08.170         152.012
17.08.180         152.012
17.08.190         152.012
17.08.200         152.012
17.08.210         152.012
17.08.220         152.012
17.08.230         152.012
17.08.240         152.012
17.08.250         152.012
17.08.260         152.012
17.08.270         152.012
17.08.280         152.012
17.08.290         152.012
17.08.300         152.012
17.08.310         152.012
17.08.315         152.012
17.08.316         152.012
17.08.318         152.012
17.08.320         152.012
17.08.330         152.012
17.08.340         152.012
17.08.345         152.012
17.08.350         152.012
17.08.360         152.012
17.08.370         152.012
17.08.380         152.012
17.08.390         152.012
17.08.400         152.012
17.08.410         152.012
17.08.430         152.012
17.08.440         152.012
17.08.450         152.012
17.12.010         152.025
17.12.020         152.026
17.12.030         152.027
17.12.040         152.028
17.12.050         152.029
17.16.010         152.040
17.16.020         152.040
17.16.040         152.040
17.16.040         152.040
17.20.010         152.041
17.20.020         152.041
17.20.030         152.041
17.20.040         152.041
17.24.010         152.042
17.24.020         152.042
17.24.025         152.042
17.24.030         152.042
17.24.040         152.042
17.28.010         152.043
17.28.020         152.043
17.28.025         152.043
17.28.030         152.043
17.28.040         152.043
17.32.010         152.044
17.32.020         152.044
17.32.030         152.044
17.32.040         152.044
17.36.010         152.055
17.36.020         152.056
17.36.030         152.057
17.40.010         152.070
17.40.030         152.071
17.40.040         152.072
17.40.050         152.073
17.40.060         152.074
17.40.070         152.075
17.40.080         152.076
17.40.090         152.077
17.40.100         152.078
17.44.010         152.090
17.44.020         152.091
17.44.030         152.092
17.44.040         152.093
17.44.045         152.094
17.44.050         152.095
17.48.010         152.095
17.48.020         152.111
17.48.030         152.112
17.48.040         152.113
17.48.050         152.114
17.48.060         152.115
17.52.010         152.130
17.52.020         152.131
17.52.030         152.132
17.52.040         152.133
17.52.050         152.134
17.52.060         152.135
17.56.010         152.136
17.56.020         152.137
17.56.030         152.138
15.60.010         152.150
17.60.020         152.151
17.60.030         152.152
17.60.040         152.153
17.60.050         152.153
17.60.060         152.153
17.60.070         152.153
17.60.080         152.154
17.61.010         152.165
17.61.020         152.166
17.64.010         152.013
17.68.010         152.014
17.68.020         152.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE LIST
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Code Section(s)
ORDINANCE LIST
Ord.  Date                                                                                   Code
No.   Passed Description                                                                     Section
                                                                                             (s)
1     N/A    Repeals certain ords in conflict with revised ords                              N/A
                                                                                             130.01,
      - -                                                                                    131.01,
2     1917   Certain acts declared misdemeanors                                              132.01,
                                                                                             133.01,
                                                                                             134.01
3     - -    Firearms and fireworks                                                          136.01,
      1917                                                                                   136.99
4     - -    Defacing or destroying buildings                                                134.01
      1917
5     - -    Vagrants                                                                        133.04
      1917
6     N/A    Playing baseball in the streets                                                 N/A
7     N/A    Gambling and gambling houses                                                    N/A
8     N/A    Dramshop licensing                                                              N/A
9     N/A    Burials within the city limits                                                  N/A
10    - -    Morals and decency regulations                                                  132.02
      1917
11    N/A    Licensing of peddlers and amusements                                            N/A
12    N/A    Standing stallions                                                              N/A
13    N/A    Concealed weapons                                                               N/A
      - -                                                                                    70.45,
14    1917   Parade permits                                                                  70.46,
                                                                                             70.99
15    - -    Nuisances                                                                       N/A
      1917
16    - -    Obstructing streets and sidewalks                                               91.040 -
      1917                                                                                   91.058
                                                                                             91.044,
17    - -    Maintenance of street and sidewalk areas by property owners                     91.046,
      1917                                                                                   91.049,
                                                                                             91.999
18    N/A    Loitering around railroad depot and jumping on trains                           N/A
20    - -    Trains not to obstruct streets                                                  71.15,
      1917                                                                                   71.99
21    - -    Barbed wire fences                                                              91.001,
      1917                                                                                   91.999
22    - -    Animals and fowl at large                                                       N/A
      1917
23    N/A    Fire limits designated; construction regulations                                N/A
24    - -    Fiscal year                                                                     32.01
      1917
25    N/A    Salaries of city officers                                                       N/A
26    N/A    City Council meetings                                                           N/A
27    N/A    Work hours and rate of pay for manual labor                                     N/A
28    N/A    Traction engines and threshing machine engines                                  N/A
29    N/A    Defacing or loitering around school building                                    N/A
30    N/A    Payment of fines and costs                                                      N/A
31    N/A    Fire Department                                                                 N/A
32    N/A    Duties of city officials                                                        N/A
33    N/A    Itinerant merchants                                                             N/A
34    N/A    Sidewalk construction and repair                                                N/A
35    N/A    Bicycles and tricycles                                                          N/A
36    - -    Awnings, porches, and signs                                                     91.002,
      1917                                                                                   91.999
37    N/A    Sale or gift of tobacco to minors                                               N/A
38    N/A    Privies                                                                         N/A
39    N/A    Tax on foreign fire insurance companies                                         N/A
40    N/A    Dogs                                                                            N/A
41    N/A    Licensing of draymen and carriers                                               N/A
42    N/A    Board of Health; contagious diseases                                            N/A
43    N/A    Appointive officers                                                             N/A
44    N/A    Pool and billiard rooms and tables                                              N/A
45    - -    Spitting and littering in public places                                         133.02,
      1917                                                                                   133.99
46    N/A    Adopts Ords. 1 - 46 as “General Ordinances of the city of Nashville, IllinoisN/A
47    N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
48    N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
49    N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
50    N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
51    N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
52    N/A    Amends § 3 of Ord. 27, pay rate for manual                                     N/A
53    N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
54    N/A    Adds §§ 7, 8, and 9 to Ord. 19, motor vehicles                                N/A
55    N/A    Police magistrate                                                               N/A
56    N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
57    N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
58    N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
58a   N/A    Amends Ord. 25, salaries of city officers                                       N/A
59    N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
60    N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
61    N/A    Repeals Ord. 41, licensing of draymen and carriers                              N/A
62    N/A    Gasoline storage                                                                N/A
63    N/A    Transfer of funds                                                               N/A
64    N/A    Oil inspection; inspection of oil and gasoline                                  N/A
64a   N/A    Amends Ord. 25, salaries of city officers                                       N/A
64b   N/A    Amends Ord. 27, work hour and rates of pay for manual labor                     N/A
65    N/A    Amends § 1 of Ord. 62, gasoline storage                                        N/A
66    N/A    Amends §§ 16 and 17 of Ord. 31, Fire Department                               N/A
67    N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
68    N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
69    N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
70    N/A    Prohibits minors from playing games of chance in public places                  N/A
71    N/A    Salaries of city officers                                                       N/A
72    N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
73    N/A    Parking                                                                         N/A
74    N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
75    N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
76    N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
77    N/A    Threshing grain near city limits                                                N/A
78    N/A    Amends § 9 of Ord. 54, motor vehicles                                          N/A
79    N/A    Board of Local Improvements                                                     N/A
80    N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
81    N/A    Amends § 1 of Ord. 64, Oil Inspector                                           N/A
82    N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
83    N/A    Construction of certain sidewalk                                                N/A
84    N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
85    N/A    Board of Local Improvements                                                     N/A
86    N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
87    N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
88    N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
89    N/A    Change of street lighting system by Illinois Power and Light Corporation        N/A
90    N/A    Amends §§ 7, 8, and 10 of Ord. 54, motor vehicles                             N/A
91    N/A    Agreement with Illinois Bell Telephone Company for fire alarm services          N/A
92    N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 11, licensing of peddlers and amusements                    N/A
      - -                                                                                    70.01,
93    1924   Driving on newly-improved streets                                               70.02,
                                                                                             70.99
94    N/A    Appropriation 95 tax levy                                                       N/A
96    N/A    Illinois Power and Light Corporation contract                                   N/A
97    N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
98    N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
99    N/A    Repeals Ords. 62 and 65, gasoline storage                                       N/A
100   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
101   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
102   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
103   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
      - -                                                                                    91.015 -
104   1927   Construction of curbs and gutters                                               91.023,
                                                                                             91.025
105   N/A    Amends §§ 1 and 5 of Ord. 104, construction of curbs and gutters              N/A
106   N/A    Board of Local Improvements                                                     N/A
107   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
108   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
109   N/A    Board of Local Improvements                                                     N/A
110   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
111   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
112   N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
113   N/A    U-turns                                                                         N/A
114   N/A    Repeals Ords. 64 and 81, oil and gasoline                                       N/A
115   N/A    Illinois Power and Light Corporation franchise                                  N/A
116   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
117   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
118   N/A    Illinois Power and Light Corporation street lighting contract                   N/A
119   N/A    Repeals Ord. 55, police magistrate                                              N/A
120   N/A    Public retail gasoline and oil filling stations                                 N/A
121   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
122   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
123   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
124   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
125   N/A    Sale of beer                                                                    N/A
126   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
127   N/A    Board of Local Improvements                                                     N/A
128   N/A    Street vacation and dedication                                                  TSO III
129   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
130   N/A    Water revenue bonds                                                             N/A
131   N/A    Sewer revenue bonds                                                             N/A
132   N/A    Amends § 6 of Ord. 34, sidewalk construction and repair                        N/A
133   N/A    Alcoholic liquor                                                                N/A
134   N/A    Repeals Ord. 8, dramshop and Ord. 125, sale of beer                             N/A
135   N/A    Dogs running at large                                                           N/A
136   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
137   N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 133, alcoholic liquor                                       N/A
138   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
139   N/A    Amends §§ 6 and 7 of Ord. 133, alcoholic liquor                               N/A
140   N/A    Approves a loan and grant for waterworks construction                           N/A
141   N/A    Repeals Ord. 130, water revenue bonds                                           N/A
142   N/A    Repeals Ord. 131, sewer revenue bonds                                           N/A
143   N/A    Authorizes construction of waterworks system                                    N/A
144   N/A    Waterworks bonds                                                                N/A
145   N/A    Special election for waterworks bonds                                           N/A
146   N/A    Repeals Ord. 120, gasoline and oil filling stations                             N/A
147   N/A    Publication and effective date of ordinances                                    N/A
148   N/A    Amends § 3 of Ord. 26, City Council meetings                                   N/A
149   N/A    Repeals Ord, 44, pool and billiard rooms and tables                             N/A
150   N/A    City Attorney duties and salary                                                 N/A
151   N/A    Additional City Treasurer’s bond                                              N/A
152   N/A    Acquisition of land for waterworks system construction                          N/A
153   N/A    Water Department, regulations, and rates                                        N/A
154   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
155   N/A    Parking on certain streets                                                      N/A
156   N/A    Amends § 7 of Ord. 133, alcoholic liquor                                       N/A
157   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
158   N/A    Sewerage bonds                                                                  N/A
159   N/A    Special election for sewerage bonds                                             N/A
160   N/A    Authorizes construction of sewerage system                                      N/A
161   N/A    Pipeline installation for waterworks system                                     N/A
162   N/A    Parking on certain streets                                                      N/A
163   N/A    Sewerage Department, regulations and rates                                      N/A
164   N/A    Regulates sale of certain foods on legal holidays                               N/A
165   N/A    Amends § 5 and subsection 4 of § 3 of Ord. 163, sewerage system regulations   N/A
166   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power and Light Corporation                              N/A
167   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power and Light Corporation; repeals Ord. 118            N/A
168   N/A    Parking on certain streets                                                      N/A
169   N/A    Pipeline installation for waterworks system                                     N/A
170   N/A    Amends § 1 of Ord. 164, sale of certain foods on legal holidays                N/A
171   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
172   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
173   N/A    Regulates barbershop hours                                                      N/A
174   N/A    Fishing in Lake Nashville                                                       N/A
175   N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
176   N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
177   N/A    City Clerk duties and salary                                                    N/A
178   N/A    City Clerk’s and City Treasurer’s bonds                                     N/A
179   N/A    Amends § 3 of Ord. 153, Water Superintendent duties                            N/A
180   N/A    Amends §§ 3, 4, and 8 of Ord. 163, sewerage regulations                       N/A
181   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
182   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
183   N/A    Water revenue bonds                                                             N/A
184   N/A    Metal-tired vehicles on streets                                                 N/A
185   - -    City Clerk’s and City Treasurer’s bonds                                     N/A
      1938
186   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
187   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
188   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
189   N/A    Alcoholic liquor                                                                N/A
190   N/A    Amends paragraph 5 of § 16 of Ord. 153, water regulations                      N/A
191   N/A    Amends § 6 of Ord. 163, sewer regulations                                      N/A
192   N/A    City Marshal and street overseer salaries                                       N/A
193   N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
194   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
195   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
196   N/A    Construction of certain railroad track                                          N/A
197   N/A    Prohibits drainage into storm sewers                                            N/A
198   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
199   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
200   N/A    Pipeline license agreement                                                      N/A
201   N/A    Electric light and power utility                                                N/A
202   N/A    Special election for electric light and power utility                           N/A
203   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
204   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
205   N/A    Contract with IIlinois-Iowa Power Company; repeals Ord. 167                     N/A
206   N/A    Contract with Illinois-Iowa Power Company                                       N/A
207   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
208   - -    Combines waterworks and sewerage systems                                        50.002
      1941
209   N/A    Waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds                                           N/A
210   N/A    Waterworks and sewerage system rates and charges                                N/A
211   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
212   N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 177, City Clerk                                             N/A
213   - -    Slaughterhouses, packing houses, and tanneries                                  92.002,
      1942                                                                                   92.999
214   N/A    Backwater traps on outlet sewer lines                                           N/A
215   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
      - -                                                                                    91.070,
216   1942   Swimming at waterworks property; discharge of firearms on city property         91.071,
                                                                                             91.999
217   - -    Public library                                                                  31.34
      1943
218   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
219   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
220   N/A    Registrar of vital statistics                                                   N/A
221   - -    Amends § 2 of Ord. 216, discharge of firearms on city property                 91.071
      1943
222   N/A    Adds paragraph to § 1 of Ord. 210, waterworks and sewerage system rates and    N/A
             charges
223   N/A    Repeals and replaces §§ 2, 3, and 4 of Ord. 34, sidewalk construction and     N/A
             repair
224   - -    Repeals and replaces §§ 1, 2, and 3 of Ord. 104, curb and gutter construction 91.015 -
      1944                                                                                   91.023
225   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
226   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
227   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
                                                                                             50.003,
                                                                                             50.004,
             Waterworks and sewerage system regulations; Utilities Department established;   50.010 -
228   - -    repeals Ords. 153, 163, 165, 179, 180, 190, 191, 210, 214, and 222              50.012,
                                                                                             50.014 -
                                                                                             50.024,
                                                                                             50.999
             Street overseer; salaries of city officers; payment of city employees; term of
229   N/A    office of elective and appointive officers; repeals Ords. 25, 58a, 64a, 71,     N/A
             150, and 177
230   N/A    Waterworks and sewerage bonds                                                   N/A
231   N/A    Special election for waterworks and sewerage bonds                              N/A
232   - -    Library book fines                                                              31.34
      1945
233   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
234   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
234   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
235   N/A    Illinois Power Company franchise                                                N/A
236   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company for street lighting system; repeals Ord.   N/A
             205
237   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company for electric service for water and sewer   N/A
             plants; repeals Ord. 206
238   N/A    Licensing of vehicles carrying passengers for hire                              N/A
239   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
240   N/A    Amends paragraph 1 of § 17 of Ord. 228, waterworks and sewerage system         N/A
241   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
242   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
243   N/A    Restaurants and food stores                                                     N/A
244   N/A    Milk regulations                                                                N/A
245   N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 189, alcoholic liquor                                       N/A
246   N/A    Amends §§ 1, 7, and 8 of Ord. 229, salaries                                   N/A
247   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
248   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
249   N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
250   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
251   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
252   N/A    Purchase of cast iron pipe and fittings                                         N/A
253   N/A    Authorizes sale of certain city property                                        N/A
254   N/A    Traffic                                                                         N/A
255   N/A    Amends § 6 of Ord. 34, sidewalk construction and repair; repeals Ord. 132      N/A
256   N/A    Waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds                                           N/A
257   N/A    Amends §§ 1, 7, and 8 of Ord. 229, salaries; repeals Ord. 246                 N/A
258   N/A    Amends § 1 of Ord. 210, water and sewer rates and charges                      N/A
259   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
260   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
261   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
262   N/A    Fire Department; amends §§ 16 and 17 of Ord. 31                               N/A
263   N/A    Amends §§ 1, 7, and 8 of Ord. 229, salaries; repeals Ord. 257                 N/A
264   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
265   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
266   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
267   N/A    Illinois Power Company electric franchise                                       N/A
268   - -    Zoning definitions                                                              152.012
      1967
269   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company for electric service for water and sewer   N/A
             plants; repeals Ord. 237
270   N/A    Claim of ownership of certain land                                              N/A
271   N/A    Street vacation                                                                 TSO III
272   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
273   N/A    Authorizes sale of certain city property                                        N/A
274   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
275   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
276   N/A    Amends §§ 1 and 2 of Ord. 189, alcoholic liquor; repeals Ord. 245             N/A
277   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
             Water and sewers; amends § 1 of Ord. 210 repeals Ord. 177, § 9 of Ords. 210,  50.001,
278   N/A    212, and 258                                                                    50.005,
                                                                                             50.006
279   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
280   N/A    Tax levy for street improvements                                                N/A
281   N/A    Natural gas public utility                                                      N/A
282   N/A    Liquefied petroleum gas                                                         N/A
283   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
284   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
285   N/A    Tax levy for street improvements                                                N/A
286   N/A    Natural gas public utility                                                      N/A
287   N/A    Special election for natural gas public utility                                 N/A
288   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
289   N/A    Natural gas rates and charges                                                   N/A
290   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
291   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
292   N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
293   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
294   - -    City Clerk duties                                                               31.15
      1952
295   N/A    Natural gas service rates; repeals Ord. 289                                     N/A
296   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
297   N/A    Natural gas service line                                                        N/A
298   N/A    Tax levy for street improvements                                                N/A
299   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
300   N/A    Parking on certain street; repeals Ord. 168                                     N/A
301   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
302   N/A    Special election for waterworks and sewer improvement bonds                     N/A
303   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
304   N/A    Street vacation                                                                 TSO III
305   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
306   N/A    Parking on certain street; repeals Ord. 300                                     N/A
307   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
308   N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 189, alcoholic liquor license; repeals Ord. 245             N/A
309   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
310   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
311   - -    Fluoridation of water                                                           92.001
      1956
312   N/A    Repeals and replaces § 3 of Ord. 295, natural gas rates                        N/A
313   N/A    Tax levy 313A tax levy                                                          N/A
314   N/A    Retailer’s occupation tax                                                     N/A
315   N/A    Police magistrate                                                               N/A
316   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
317   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
318   N/A    Repeals and replaces § 3 of Ord. 295, natural gas rates; repeals Ord. 312      N/A
319   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
319A  N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
320   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
321   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
322   N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
323   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
324   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
324A  N/A    Tax levy for street improvement                                                 N/A
325   N/A    Repeals and replaces § 3 of Ord. 295, natural gas rates; repeals Ord. 318      N/A
326   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company; repeals Ord. 269                          N/A
327   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company for street lighting; repeals Ord. 268      N/A
328   N/A    Salaries of officers                                                            N/A
329   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
330   N/A    Acceptance of certain plat                                                      N/A
331   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
332   N/A    Water and sewer utility line extension for hospital district                    N/A
333   N/A    Amends § 6 of Ord. 292, telephone franchise                                    N/A
334   N/A    Amends § 4 of Ord. 315, Police Magistrate                                      N/A
335   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
336   N/A    Service occupation tax                                                          N/A
337   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
338   N/A    Street vacation                                                                 TSO III
339   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
340   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
341   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
342   - -    Planning Commission                                                             31.33
      1962
343   - -    Boating on Lake Nashville                                                       91.072
      1963
344   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
345   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
346   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
347   N/A    Sewer regulations                                                               N/A
348   - -    Curfew for minors                                                               135.01,
      1968                                                                                   135.99
      - -                                                                                    150.01 -
349   1964   Adopts 1955 Building Code; Building Official; fire limits                       150.05,
                                                                                             150.99
350   - -    Adopts 1955 National Plumbing Code                                              150.20 -
      1964                                                                                   150.23
      - -                                                                                    150.35 -
351   1964   Adopts 1962 National Electrical Code                                            150.38,
                                                                                             150.99
      - -                                                                                    150.50 -
352   1964   Housing regulations                                                             150.66,
                                                                                             150.99
353   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
354   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
355   N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
356   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
357   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
358   N/A    Special election for supervised playground and recreation system                N/A
359   N/A    Amends § 3 of Ord. 295, natural gas rates; repeals Ord. 325                    N/A
360   N/A    Trailer coaches and trailer coach parks                                         N/A
361   N/A    Parking on certain streets                                                      N/A
362   N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
363   - -    Playground and Recreation Board                                                 31.32
      1966
364   N/A    Civil defense                                                                   N/A
365   N/A    Amends subsection (d) of § 2 of Ord. 278, water and sewer connection fees      N/A
366   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
367   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
                                                                                             152.001 -
                                                                                             152.007,
                                                                                             152.009 -
                                                                                             152.114,
                                                                                             152.025 -
                                                                                             152.029,
                                                                                             152.040 -
                                                                                             152.044,
      - -                                                                                    152.055 -
368   1967   Zoning                                                                          152.057,
                                                                                             152.070 -
                                                                                             152.075,
                                                                                             152.090 -
                                                                                             152.095,
                                                                                             152.110 -
                                                                                             152.114,
                                                                                             152.130 -
                                                                                             152.138,
                                                                                             152.999
369   N/A    Retailer’s occupation tax; repeals Ord. 314                                   N/A
370   N/A    Service occupation tax; repeals Ord. 336                                        N/A
371   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
372   N/A    Street vacation                                                                 TSO III
373   N/A    Service occupation tax; repeals Ord. 370                                        N/A
374   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
375   N/A    Repeals and replaces § 2 of Ord. 278, water and sewer rates; repeals Ord. 365  N/A
376   N/A    Repeals and replaces § 3 of Ord. 295, natural gas rates; repeals Ord. 359      N/A
377   N/A    Property vacation                                                               N/A
378   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
379   N/A    Vacation of certain lots                                                        N/A
380   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
381   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company for street lighting; repeals Ord. 327      N/A
382   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company; repeals Ord. 326                          N/A
383   N/A    Service occupation tax; repeals Ord. 373                                        N/A
      - -                                                                                    70.15 -
384   1968   Traffic signs and signals                                                       70.17,
                                                                                             70.99
385   N/A    Amends § 6-4(a) of Ord. 368, zoning                                            N/A
386   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
387   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
388   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
389   N/A    Special water line No. 1                                                        N/A
390   N/A    Adds new rate to § 3 of Ord. 375, water and sewer rates                        N/A
391   N/A    Adds new rate to § 3 of Ord. 376, natural gas rates                            N/A
392   N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
393   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
394   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
395   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
396   N/A    Water purchase contract                                                         N/A
397   N/A    Compensation of elected officials                                               N/A
398   - -    Council meetings                                                                30.01 -
      1969                                                                                   30.06
399   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
400   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
401   - -    Weeds                                                                           92.021,
      1969                                                                                   92.999
402   - -    Retailer’s occupation tax; repeals Ord. 369                                   32.15
      1969
403   - -    Service occupation tax; repeals Ord. 383                                        32.16
      1969
404   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
405   N/A    Natural gas rates; repeals Ords. 376 and 391                                    N/A
406   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
407   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
408   - -    Amends §§ 3 and 4 of Ord. 363, Playground and Recreation Board                31.32
      1970
409   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
410   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
411   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
412   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
413   N/A    Natural gas rates; repeals Ord. 405                                             N/A
414   N/A    Abandoned vehicles                                                              N/A
415   - -    Trespass                                                                        134.02,
      1971                                                                                   134.99
      - -                                                                                    110.15 -
416   1971   Solicitors                                                                      110.23,
                                                                                             110.99
417   - -    Abandoned vehicles                                                              92.020,
      1971                                                                                   92.999
418   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
419   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
420   - -    Committees of the Council                                                       30.07
      1969
421   N/A    Parking on certain streets                                                      N/A
422   N/A    Sewer regulations                                                               N/A
423   N/A    Natural gas rates; repeals Ord. 413 and § 2 of Ord. 295                        N/A
424   N/A    Accepts vacation of certain subdivision                                         N/A
425   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
426   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
427   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
428   N/A    Amends § 7 of Ord. 189, alcoholic liquor sale on election days                 N/A
429   N/A    Repeals and replaces § 2 of Ord. 278, water and sewer rates; repeals Ord. 375  N/A
430   N/A    Compensation for elected officials                                              N/A
431   - -    Dogs at large                                                                   90.01 -
      1973                                                                                   90.03
432   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
433   N/A    Amends § 1 of Ord. 398, Council meetings                                       N/A
434   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
435   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
436   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
437   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
438   N/A    Amends § 1 of Ord. 398, Council meetings                                       N/A
439   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
440   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
441   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
442   N/A    Sale of certain city property                                                   N/A
443   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
444   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
445   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
446   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
      - -                                                                                    112.01 -
447   1974   Alcoholic liquor regulations; repeals Ords. 189, 245, 276, 308, and 428         112.08,
                                                                                             112.99
448   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
449   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
450   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
451   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
452   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
453   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
454   N/A    Parking on certain street                                                       N/A
455   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
456   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
457   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
458   N/A    Amends §§ 1 and 2 of Ord. 430, compensation for elected officials             N/A
459   N/A    Amends § 1 of Ord. 398, Council meetings                                       N/A
460   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
461   - -    Use tax                                                                         32.16
      1974
462   N/A    Compensation for elected officials                                              N/A
463   N/A    Amends rate 3 of § 3 of Ord. 429, sewerage service                             N/A
464   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
465   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
466   N/A    Street vacation                                                                 N/A
      - -                                                                                    112.02,
467   1975   Amends §§ 2, 3, 4, and 7 of Ord. 447, alcoholic liquor regulations            112.03,
                                                                                             112.08
468   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
469   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
470   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
471   N/A    Review of proposed buildings sites for flood hazards                            N/A
472   - -    Authorizes action to qualify city under National Flood Insurance Act of 1968    30.08
      1975
473   N/A    Tri-County Electric Cooperative, Inc. franchise                                 N/A
474   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
475   N/A    Missing                                                                         N/A
476   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
477   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
478   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
479   N/A    Subdivisions                                                                    N/A
480   N/A    Natural gas system connection charge                                            N/A
481   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
482   N/A    Amends §§ 407 and 413 of Ord. 422, sewer regulations                          N/A
483   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
484   - -    Installation or replacement of curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and storm sewers      91.024,
      1976                                                                                   91.026
485   N/A    Natural gas system regulations                                                  N/A
486   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
487   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
488   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
489   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
490   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
491   - -    Amends § 1 of Ord. 398, Council meetings                                       30.01
      1976
492   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
493   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
494   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
495   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
496   N/A    Amends §§ 2, 3, 4, and 7 of Ord. 447, alcoholic liquor regulations            N/A
497   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
498   N/A    Insurance liability limits for Washington County Vocational Workshop            N/A
499   N/A    Acceptance of plat                                                              N/A
500   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
501   N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 278, water and sewer rates; repeals Ord. 429                N/A
502   N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
                                                                                             50.065 -
      - -                                                                                    50.070,
503   1977   Sewers and sewage disposal                                                      50.072 -
                                                                                             50.093,
                                                                                             50.999
504   N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
505   N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
506   N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
507   - -    General provisions                                                              10.02
      1978
508   - -    General penalty                                                                 10.99
      1978
509   2-16-  Amends § 4 of Ord. 408, Playground and Recreation Board                        31.32
      1978
510   N/A    Amends § 4 of Ord. 360, trailer coaches and trailer coach parks                N/A
             Repeals §§ 2, 4, 5 and 6 of Ord. 2, §§ 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8 of Ord. 10, § 1 of Ord.
             185, Article II, §§ 8 and 9 of Ord. 294, § 4 of Ord. 408; repeals Ords. 6, 7,
             9, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 23, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43,
511   N/A    52, 54, 64b, 66, 70, 73, 76, 77, 79, 85, 90, 92 106, 109, 113, 127, 133, 135,   N/A
             137, 139, 147, 148, 151, 155, 156, 162, 164, 170, 173, 178, 184, 192, 197, 220,
             229, 243, 244, 255, 262, 263, 295, 297, 315, 328, 334, 347, 364, 397, 422, 423,
             430, 433, 438, 458, 459, 463, 480, 482
      - -                                                                                    31.17,
512   1978   Creates offices of Superintendent of Streets, Police Chief and City Attorney    31.30,
                                                                                             31.31
513   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company for electric service; repeals Ord. 382     N/A
514   N/A    Contract with Illinois Power Company for street lighting; repeals Ord. 381      N/A
515   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
516   N/A    Amends § 9 of Ord. 485, natural gas system                                     N/A
517   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
518   N/A    1978 budget                                                                     N/A
519   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
520   N/A    Authorizes gas utilities alliance intergovernmental cooperation agreement       N/A
521   N/A    1978 tax levy                                                                   N/A
522   N/A    Approves gas utilities alliance intergovernmental cooperation agreement         N/A
523   - -    Code adoption                                                                   10.99
      1978
524   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
525   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
526   - -    Vandalism                                                                       134.03,
      1978                                                                                   134.99
527   N/A    Ratifies gas utilities alliance intergovernmental cooperation agreement         N/A
528   N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
529   N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 278, water and sewer rates; repeals Ord. 501                N/A
530   N/A    Parking on Fairgrounds Road                                                     N/A
531   N/A    Prohibits certain discharge into storm, sewers on reconstruction of FAP Route   N/A
             42
532   N/A    Regulates encroachments on certain public right-of-way                          N/A
533   N/A    Adds § 6 to Ord. 529 water rates                                               N/A
534   N/A    1979 budget                                                                     N/A
                                                                                             53.01 -
      - -                                                                                    53.04,
535   1979   Collection and disposal of garbage and refuse                                   53.06 -
                                                                                             53.09,
                                                                                             53.99
536   N/A    1979 tax levy                                                                   N/A
537   - -    Solicitation of contributions by pedestrians                                    110.35 -
      1980                                                                                   110.37
538   - -    Water main extensions                                                           50.035 -
      1979                                                                                   50.050
539   N/A    Amends § 12 of Ord. 485, natural gas system                                    N/A
540   - -    Community antenna television franchise                                          TSO I
      1980
541   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
542   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
543   N/A    Appropriations for 1980-1981                                                    N/A
544   N/A    Tax levy for 1980-1981                                                          N/A
545   N/A    Adds §§ 7, 8 and 9 to Ord. 402, retailer’s occupation tax                   N/A
546   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
547   - -    Approves membership agreement between city and Joint Utility Locating           31.04
      1981   Information for Excavators Corp. (JULIE System)
548   N/A    Amends §§ 3 and 4 of Ord. 482                                                 N/A
549   N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 278, water and sewer rates; repeals Ord. 529                N/A
550   N/A    Amends § 1 of Ord. 546, annexation of territory                                N/A
551   –1981Approves county intergovernmental law-enforcement agreement                     TSO II
552   - -    Dogs and cats running at large                                                  90.30 -
      1981                                                                                   90.33
553   N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 278, water and sewer rates; repeals Ord. 549                N/A
554   N/A    Appropriations for 1981-1982                                                    N/A
555   N/A    Tax levy for 1981-1982                                                          N/A
556   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
557   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
558   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
559   N/A    Parallel parking only in designated area                                        N/A
      - -                                                                                    91.072 -
560   1982   Boating, fishing and use of Lake Nashville                                      91.074,
                                                                                             91.999
561   N/A    (Number not used)                                                               N/A
562   N/A    Appropriations for 1982-1983                                                    N/A
563   N/A    Tax levy for 1982-1983                                                          N/A
564   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
565   - -    Amends § 9 of Ord. 416, solicitors                                             110.23
      1982
566   N/A    Development in special flood hazard areas; repeals Ord. 471                     N/A
567   - -    Amends § 7 of Ord. 535, garbage and refuse disposal                            53.07
      1982
568   N/A    Amends §§ 9, 11, and 12 of Ord. 485, natural gas system; repeals Ord. 516     N/A
569   N/A    Amends§ 2 of Ord. 278, water service; repeals Ord. 553                         N/A
570   N/A    Amends § 7 of Ord. 566, flood hazard areas                                     N/A
571   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
572   N/A    Appropriations for 1983-1984                                                    N/A
573   N/A    Amends Ords. 546 and 558, annexation of territory                               N/A
574   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
575   N/A    Tax levy for 1983-1984                                                          N/A
576   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
577   - -    Amends § 3 of Ord. 560, boating, fishing, and use of Lake Nashville            91.073
      1983
578   N/A    Repeals Ord. 545                                                                N/A
579   N/A    Street vacation                                                                 TSO III
580   N/A    Appropriations for 1983-1984                                                    N/A
581   N/A    Parking on certain streets                                                      N/A
582   - -    Encroachments                                                                   91.003,
      1984                                                                                   91.999
583   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
584   N/A    Designation of street name                                                      N/A
585   - -    Amends § 1 of Ord. 36, awnings, porches, and signs                             91.002
      1984
586   N/A    Amends § 17 of Ord. 228, water and sewers                                      N/A
587   N/A    Appropriations for 1984-1985                                                    N/A
      - -                                                                                    52.01 -
588   1984   Natural gas system; repeals Ord. 485 and 568                                    52.25,
                                                                                             52.99
589   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
590   N/A    Tax levy for 1984-1985                                                          N/A
591   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
592   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
593   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
594   N/A    Amends Ord. 292, telephone access line values                                   N/A
595   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
596   N/A    Parking restrictions                                                            N/A
597   N/A    Annexation of territory                                                         N/A
598   N/A    Appropriations for 1985-1986                                                    N/A
599   N/A    Tax levy for 1984-1985                                                          N/A
      - -    Amends §§ 2, 3, 4, and 7 of Ord. 447, alcoholic liquors; repeals §§ 14 and 1112.02,
599   1988   of Ord. 447 and Ord. 490                                                        112.03,
                                                                                             112.08
600   N/A    Tax abatement                                                                   N/A
601   N/A    Tax abatement                                                                   N/A
                                                                                             70.30 -
                                                                                             70.32 ,
                                                                                             70.99;
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. I;
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. II;
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
      - -                                                                                    Sch. III;
602   1986   Traffic-control sign placement; speed limits                                    Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. IV;
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. V;
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. VI;
                                                                                             Ch. 74,
                                                                                             Sch. I;
                                                                                             Ch. 74,
                                                                                             Sch. II
603   N/A    Retailer’s occupation tax deduction in enterprise zone                        N/A
604   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
605   N/A    Removal of cemetery                                                             N/A
606   N/A    Establishes an enterprise zone                                                  N/A
607   N/A    Community development assistance program grant funds                            N/A
608   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
609   N/A    Enterprise zone tax abatement                                                   N/A
610   N/A    Retailer’s occupation tax deduction in enterprise zone                        N/A
611   N/A    Authorizes purchase of land for municipal purposes                              N/A
612   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
613   - -    Hotel accommodations tax                                                        32.18
      1986
614   N/A    Adds language to § 3 of Ord. 278, waterworks and sewerage system               N/A
615   N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
616   N/A    Approves gas utilities alliance intergovernmental cooperation agreement         N/A
617   N/A    1986 tax levy                                                                   N/A
618   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
619   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
      - -    Amends §§ 13.04.130, 13.04.140, and 13.04.190, waterworks and sewerage system;50.007,
620   1986   repeals §§ 9, 17(1), 17(8), and 17(11) of Ord. 228, § 1 of Ord. 240, Ords. 2750.009,
             and 569                                                                         50.013
621   - -    Amends subsection B of § 10.20.010, abandoned vehicles                         92.020
      1986
622   N/A    Adds § 13.12.091, purchased gas deferred account                               N/A
623   - -    Amends § 9.56.010, curfew                                                      135.01
      1986
87-1  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
                                                                                             71.01 -
                                                                                             71.03,
                                                                                             71.99;
                                                                                             Ch. 74,
      - -    Amends §§ 10.12.010 through 10.12.070, parking; repeals §§ 1, 3, and 4 of OrSch. II;
87-2  1987   3 06 and Ords. 421, 454, 530, 559, 581, and 596                                 Ch. 74,
                                                                                             Sch. III;
                                                                                             Ch. 74,
                                                                                             Sch. IV;
                                                                                             Ch. 74,
                                                                                             Sch. V
87-3  - -    Certain left turn prohibited                                                    Ch. 73,
      1987                                                                                   Sch. VII
87-4  N/A    Amends § 2 of Ord. 462, compensation for liquor control commission             N/A
87-5  - -    Adds subsection 8 to § 17,20.040; amends § 17.20.020, zoning                  152.041
      1987
87-6  - -    Amends § 17.48.010, zoning                                                     152.110
      1987
87-7  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
87-8  - -    Amends §§ 13.04.190 and 13.04.290, waterworks and sewerage system             50.013
      1987
87-9  N/A    Amends §§ 13.12.110 and 13.12.120, natural gas system                         N/A
87-10 - -    Amends § 8.16.010, nuisances                                                   92.015 -
      1987                                                                                   92.021
87-11 N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
87-12 N/A    Amends § 13.16.050, garbage and refuse disposal                                N/A
87-13 N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
87-14 N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
87-15 N/A    Tax levy for 1987-88                                                            N/A
87-16 - -    Amends §§ 13.12.110 and 13.12.120, natural gas system; repeals Ord. 87-9      52.12,
      1987                                                                                   52.13
87-17 - -    Amends § 13.04.190, waterworks and sewerage system                             50.013
      1987
      - -                                                                                    50.083,
87-18 1987   Amends § 13.08.400 and 12.07.730, sewerage system                              50.084,
                                                                                             50.087
87-19 - -    Amends § 13.12.190, natural gas system (13.12)                                 52.20
      1987
87-   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
20
88- 1 N/A    Authorizes contract with Farmers and Merchants National Bank for payment of     N/A
             funds to purchase water main and sewer extensions
88-2  N/A    Street lighting contract; repeals Ord. 514                                      N/A
88-3  N/A    Electric energy contract; repeals Ord. 513                                      N/A
88-4  - -    Transient merchants and itinerant vendors; repeals Ord. 33                      110.01,
      1988                                                                                   110.02
88-5  N/A    Authorizes exchange of quitclaim deeds                                          N/A
88-6  N/A    Alley vacation and relocation                                                   TSO III
88-8  N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
88-9  N/A    Annexations                                                                     N/A
88-10 N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
88-11 N/A    Tax levy for 1988-89                                                            N/A
      - -                                                                                    154.01 -
88-12 1988   Repeals and replaces Ch. 5.20, mobile home parks                                154.13,
                                                                                             154.99
      - -    Adds §§ 17.08.315, 17.08.316, 17.24.025, and 17.28.025; amends § 17.24.010(H)152.012,
88-13 1988   zoning; repeals § 17.08.420                                                    152.042,
                                                                                             152.043
88-14 - -    Repeals and replaces Ch. 9.28, loitering                                        133.03,
      1988                                                                                   133.99
88-   - -    Amends § 17.20.040(7), zoning                                                  152.041
15    1988
89- 1 - -    Amends § 10.12.010, stopping, standing, and parking                            Ch. 74,
      1989                                                                                   Sch. II
89-2  N/A    Amends §§ 3 and 4 of Ord. 462, compensation for elected officials             N/A
89-3  - -    Amends § 10.12.010, stopping, standing, and parking                            Ch. 74,
      1989                                                                                   Sch. II
89-4  - -    Amends § 10.12.010, stopping and parking                                       Ch. 74,
      1989                                                                                   Sch. II
89-5  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
89-6  - -    Amends § 13.04.140, water service charges                                      50.009
      1989
89-7  N/A    Amends § 10.12.010, stopping, standing, and parking                            N/A
89-8  N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
89-9  N/A    Street vacation                                                                 TSO III
89-10 N/A    Appropriation 89-11 Repeals Ord. No. 89-7                                       N/A
89-11 N/A    Repeals Ord. 89-7                                                               N/A
89-12 N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
89-   N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
13
                                                                                             51.01 -
      - -                                                                                    51.06,
90- 1 1990   Adds Ch. 13.07, rules and regulations of cross-connection control               51.21 -
                                                                                             51.29,
                                                                                             51.99
90-2  N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
90-3  N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
90- 4 N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
91-1  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
91-2  N/A    Bond issuance                                                                   N/A
91-3  N/A    Authorizes city to borrow funds from the Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund N/A
91-4  N/A    Amends § 13.04.140, water service charges; repeals §§ 13.08.440, 13.08.480 - N/A
             13.08.710
91-5  - -    Adds Ch. 9.36, noise control                                                    133.05,
      1995                                                                                   133.99
91-6  N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
91-7  N/A    Grants use of city streets, alleys, and property to the Nashville water system  N/A
91-8  N/A    Repeals Ord. No. 91-4, § 13.04.140 “Rate 2: Sewer Service Only” and §§   N/A
             13.08.460, 13.08.480, and 13.08.490 - 13.08.710
91-9  - -    Amends § 13.04.140, water service charges                                      50.009
      1991
91-10 - -    Amends §§ 13.08.420 - 3.08.450 and 13.08.470, wastewater service charges      50.081 -
      1991                                                                                   50.085
91-11 N/A    Amends tax levy                                                                 N/A
91-12 N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
      - -                                                                                    153.01 -
91-13 1991   Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.08, special flood hazard areas                      153.11,
                                                                                             153.99
                                                                                             71.03,
92-1  - -    Amends § 10.12.050, parking                                                    71.99;
      1992                                                                                   Ch. 74,
                                                                                             Sch. IV
92-2  - -    Confined space entry policy                                                     92.050 -
      1992                                                                                   92.056
92-3  6-4-   Repeals and replaces § 10.12.010(N), parking                                   Ch. 74,
      1992                                                                                   Sch. II
92-4  N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
92-5  N/A    Franchise grant to Illinois Power Company                                       N/A
92-6  - -    Adds § 10.12.010(0) parking                                                    Ch. 74,
      1992                                                                                   Sch. II
92-7  N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
      - -                                                                                    70.01,
93    1924   Miscellaneous driving rules                                                     70.02,
                                                                                             70.99
93-1  - -    Amends § 5.08.010, business license fees                                       110.01
      1993
                                                                                             52.01,
      - -    Adds §§ 13.12.010(C) and 13.12.160 (I) - (L); amends §§ 13.12.040, 13.12.07052.05,
93-2  1993   13.12.130(A), and 13.12.200(A), natural gas system                              52.08,
                                                                                             52.17,
                                                                                             52.21
93-3  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
93-4  N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
93-5  N/A    Appropriation                                                                   N/A
93-6  N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
93-7  N/A    Amends § 13.12.160(A), natural gas system                                      52.17
94-1  N/A    Regulates encroachment on public right-of-way                                   N/A
94-2  N/A    Prohibits discharge of sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater into storm     N/A
             sewers constructed in conjunction with certain improvement
94-3  N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
94-4  N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
94-5  N/A    Waterworks bond issuance                                                        N/A
94-6  - -    Amends §§ 13.04.130 and 13.04.140; repeals § 13.04.230, waterworks and sewera50.007,
      1994   system                                                                          50.009
94-7  - -    Amends Ch. 17.60, zoning                                                        152.150 -
      1994                                                                                   152.154
94-8  - -    Adds §§ 10.24.040(84) and (85), placement of traffic-control signs            Ch. 73,
      1994                                                                                   Sch. I
94-9  - -    Adds § 10.24.040(86), placement of traffic-control signs                       Ch. 73,
      1994                                                                                   Sch. I
94-10 - -    Amends § 13.04.130, waterworks and sewerage system                             50.007
      1994
94-11 N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
95-1  - -    Creates position of Lieutenant in the Police Department                         31.30
      1995
95-2  N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
95-3  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
95-4  N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
95-5  N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
95-6  - -    Stormwater management                                                           54.01 -
      1995                                                                                   54.03
95-7  N/A    Acquisition of easement for the construction, operation and maintenance of a    N/A
             public water supply line
95-8  - -    Amends § 13.08.150, regulation of sewer use (13.08) 95-9, annexation           50.070
      1995
95-10 N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
95-11 N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
96-1  N/A    Regulates encroachment on public                                                N/A
96-2  - -    Amends § 9.36.020, noise control right-of-way                                  133.05
      1996
96-3  N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
96-4  N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
96-5  N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
96-6  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
96-7  - -    Amends § 10.12.010, parking                                                    Ch. 74,
      1996                                                                                   Sch. II
96-8  N/A    Compensation for elected officials, Liquor Control Commissioner and City        N/A
             Attorney
96-9  - -    Open burning                                                                    92.070 -
      1996                                                                                   92.073
                                                                                             152.005,
                                                                                             152.008,
                                                                                             152.029,
      - -    Adds §§ 17.04.075, 17.08.345, 17.44.045, and 17.48.060, amends the title of Ch152.041,
96-10 1996   17.48 and §§ 17.04.050, 17.08.240, 17.12.050, 17.20.020, 17.24.030, 17.36.030,152.042,
             17.44.030,and 17.48.010 - 17.48.050 and repeals § 17.40.020, zoning            152.092,
                                                                                             152.094,
                                                                                             152.110 -
                                                                                             152.115
                                                                                             151.001 -
                                                                                             151.004,
                                                                                             151.015 -
                                                                                             151.021,
                                                                                             151.035 -
                                                                                             151.042,
      - -                                                                                    151.055 -
96-11 1996   Subdivisions                                                                    151.057,
                                                                                             151.070 -
                                                                                             151.077,
                                                                                             151.090 -
                                                                                             151.098,
                                                                                             151.130 -
                                                                                             151.132,
                                                                                             152.999
96-12 - -    Establishes minimum design standards for subdivisions and developments          151.110 -
      1996                                                                                   151.117
96-   N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
12A
96-13 N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
97- 1 N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
97-1A N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
97-2  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
97-3  N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
97-4  N/A    Appropriations 1997 - 1998                                                      N/A
97-5  N/A    Waterworks system revenue bond issuance                                         N/A
97-6  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
97-7  - -    Amends § 13.04.140, waterworks service charges                                 50.009
      1997
97-8  - -    Adds Ch. 3.24, telecommunication infrastructure maintenance fee                 32.30,
      1997                                                                                   32.99
97-8A N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
97-9  N/A    Tax levy and assessment, 1997 - 1998                                            N/A
97-10 N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
98-1  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
98-2  - -    Amends §§ 13.12.090 and 13.12.170 (B); repeals § 13.12.091, natural gas syste52.10
      1998
98-3  N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
98-3A N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
98-4  N/A    Appropriations 1998 - 1999                                                      N/A
                                                                                             152.012,
      - -    Adds §§ 17.08.318, 17.40.080, 17.40.090 and 17.40.100; amends § 17.08.318 and152.042,
98-5  1998   17.24.010, zoning                                                               152.076 -
                                                                                             152.078,
                                                                                             152.092
      - -                                                                                    71.03;
98-6  1998   Amends § 10.12.050(B), parking                                                 Ch. 74,
                                                                                             Sch. IV
98-8  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
      - -                                                                                    111.01 -
98-9  1998   Bed and breakfast establishments regulations                                    111.06,
                                                                                             111.99
98-10 N/A    Tax levy and assessment, 1998-1999                                              N/A
99-1  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
99-1A N/A    Rezoning                                                                        N/A
      - -                                                                                    50.008,
99-2  1999   Adds §§ 13.04.135, 13.08.175 and 13.12.015, past- due utility bills           50.071,
                                                                                             52.02
99-3  N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
99-4  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
99-5  N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
99-6  7-1-   Adopts State Gift Ban Act and appoints Mayor as ethics officer of the city      31.05
      1999
99-7  N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
99-8  N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
99-9  N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
99-10 N/A    Bond issuance                                                                   N/A
99-11 - -    Amends § 10.12.010(1), parking                                                 Ch. 74,
      1979                                                                                   Sch. II
99-12 N/A    Prohibits encroachment within certain project or roadway rights-of-way          N/A
             Prohibits connection of any drain-carrying sewage or industrial waste or any
99-13 N/A    polluting substances into any storm sewers constructed as part of certain       N/A
             highway project
99-14 N/A    Bond issuance                                                                   N/A
99-15 N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
2000- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
1
2000- N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
2
2000- N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
3
2000- - -    Underground damage prevention program                                           55.01 -
4     2000                                                                                   55.04
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
2000- - -    Adds §§ 10.24.060(A)(8) and 10.24.070(5) and (6), traffic-control signs; speedSch. III;
5     2000   limits                                                                          Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. IV
2000- N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
6
2001- - -    Adds Ch. 3.28, locally imposed tax rights                                       32.02
1     2001
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
2001- - -    Amends §§ 10.24.040 and 10.24.050, traffic-control signs                      Sch. I;
2     2001                                                                                   Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. II
2001- - -    Adds § 8.16.060, demolition derby vehicles                                     92.019
3     2001
2001- - -    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
4
2001- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
5
2001- N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
6
2001- N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
7
2001- N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
8
2001- N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
9
2002- N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
1
2002- - -    Amends §§ 13.08.440 and 13.08.4 50, wastewater services charges               50.083 -
3     2002                                                                                   50.085
2002- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
4
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
2002- - -    Amends §§ 10.24.040 and 10.24.050, traffic-control signs                      Sch. I;
5     2002                                                                                   Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. II
2002- - -    Amends § 10.24.040, traffic-control signs                                      Ch. 73,
6     2002                                                                                   Sch. I
2002- N/A    Tax levy                                                                        N/A
7
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
2003- - -    Amends § 10.24.040 and 10.24.050, placement of traffic-control signs           Sch. I;
2     2003                                                                                   Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. II
2003- N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
3
2003- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
4
2003- N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
5
2003- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
6
2003- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
7
2003- N/A    Adopts official comprehensive plan and map                                      N/A
8
2003- - -    Amends § 10.24.040, placement of traffic-control signs                         Ch. 73,
9     2003                                                                                   Sch. I
2003- N/A    Tax levy and assessment, 2003 - 2004                                            N/A
10
2004- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
1
2004- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
2
2004- - -    Amends § 8.12.040 - 8.12.090, liquefied petroleum gases                        92.035 -
3     2004                                                                                   92.039
2004- N/A    Amends the Nashville-Washington County enterprise zone                          N/A
4
2004- - -    Amends § 10.12.010, parking                                                    Ch. 74,
5     2004                                                                                   Sch. II
2004- 5-6-   Adopts State Officials and Employees Ethics Act                                 31.06
6     2004
2004- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
7
2004- N/A    Incorporates terms of Prevailing Wage Act                                       N/A
8
2004- N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
9
2004- N/A    Appropriations Tax levy and assessment, 2004 - 2005                             N/A
10
2005- - -    Adds Ch. 17.61, planned unit developments; amends §§ 17.24.010, 17.28.010, and152.150,
1     2005   17.60.010, zoning                                                               152.165,
                                                                                             152.166
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
2005- - -    Amends §§ 10.24.040 and 10.24.050, placement of traffic-control signs         Sch. I;
2     2005                                                                                   Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. II
2005- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
3
2005- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
4
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
2005- - -    Amends §§ 10.24.040 and 10.24.050, placement of traffic-control signs         Sch. I;
5     2005                                                                                   Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. II
2005- N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
6
2005- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
7
2005- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
8
2005- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
9
2005- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
10
2005- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
11
2005- N/A    Tax levy and assessment, 2005 - 2006                                            N/A
12
2006- - -    Amends § 10.24.040, placement of traffic-control signs                         Ch. 73,
1     2006                                                                                   Sch. I
2006- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
2
2006- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
3
2006- N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
4
2006- - -    Amends § 8.32.040, open burning                                                92.073
5     2006
2006- N/A    Annexation                                                                      N/A
6
2006- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
7
2006- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
8
2006- N/A    Tax levy and assessment, 2006 - 2007                                            N/A
9
2007- N/A    Alley vacation                                                                  TSO III
1
2007- - -    Amends § 13.16.070, garbage and refuse disposal                                53.07
2     2007
2007- - -    Repeals and replaces § 13.16.050, garbage and refuse disposal                  53.05
3     2007
2007- N/A    Appropriations                                                                  N/A
4
2007- N/A    Rezone                                                                          N/A
5
2007- N/A    Street vacation                                                                 TSO III
6
2007- N/A    Tax levy and assessment, 2007 - 2008                                            N/A
7
2008- 3-6-   Amending the enterprise zone                                                    N/A
1     2008
2008- 6-19-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             N/A
02    2008
2008- 7-17-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
03    2008
                                                                                             Ch. 73,
2008- 10-16- Traffic-control signs                                                           Sch. I;
4     2008                                                                                   Ch. 73,
                                                                                             Sch. II
2008- 1-18-  Tax levy                                                                        N/A
5     2008
                                                                                             152.012,
2009- 2-19-                                                                                  152.014,
01    2009   Amending the zoning code                                                        152.040 -
                                                                                             152.044,
                                                                                             152.092
2009- 4-2-   Loan                                                                            N/A
2     2009
2009- 4-2-   Purchasing contract                                                             TSO II
3     2009
2009- 6-18-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             N/A
4     2009
2009- 7-16-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
5     2009
2009- 8-6-   Amending subdivisions                                                           151.035
7     2009
2009- 9-3-   Speed limits                                                                    Ch. 73,
8     2009                                                                                   Sch. III
2009- 12-12- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
9     2009
2010- 1-21-  Amending public services                                                        50.007,
1     2010                                                                                   52.20
2010- 5-20-  Loan                                                                            N/A
2     2010
2010- 6-17-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             N/A
3     2010
2010- 7-1-   Bonds                                                                           N/A
4     2010
2010- 7-15-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
5     2010
2010- 8-5-   Amending public services                                                        N/A
6     2010
2010- 8-19-  Part-time police officers                                                       31.03
7     2010
2010- 9-2-   Bonds                                                                           N/A
8     2010
2010- 10-21- Parking                                                                         Ch. 74,
9     2010                                                                                   Sch. I
2010- 12-2-  License agreement                                                               TSO II
10    2010
2010- 12-16- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
11    2010
2011- 6-16-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             N/A
1     2011
2012- 7-21-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
2     2011
2011- 10-6-  Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
3     2011
2011- 11-3-  Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
4     2011
2011- 11-3-  Offenses against public peace                                                   133.06,
5     2011                                                                                   133.99
2011- 12-15- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
6     2011
2011- 12-15- Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
7     2011
2012- 2-2-   Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
1     2012
2012- 6-7-   Prevailing Wage Act                                                             N/A
2     2012
2012- 7-19-  Part-time police officers                                                       31.03
3     2012
2012- 7-19-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
4     2012
2012- 12-6-                                                                                  72.01 -
5     2012   Low-speed vehicles                                                              72.04,
                                                                                             72.99
2012- 12-20- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
6     2012
2013- 1-17-  Public question                                                                 N/A
01    2013
2013- 6-27-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             N/A
2     2013
2013- 7-18-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
3     2013
2013- 12-19- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
4     2013
2014- 1-16-  Regulates encroachments on certain public right-of-way                          N/A
1     2014
2014- 1-16-  Prohibits discharge of sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater into storm     N/A
2     2014   sewers constructed in conjunction with certain improvement
2014- 4-17-  Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
3     2014
2014- 4-17-  Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
4     2014
2014- 6-19-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             N/A
5     2014
2014- 7-17-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
6     2014
2014- 8-7-   Proposed enterprise zone                                                        N/A
7     2014
2014- 9-4-   Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
8     2014
2014- 9-4-   Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
9     2014
2014- 11-6-  Establishing enterprise zone                                                    N/A
10    2014
2014- 12-18- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
11    2014
2015- 5-21-  Excavations                                                                     91.085 -
1     2015                                                                                   91.116
2015- 7-16-  Curfew                                                                          135.01,
2     2015                                                                                   135.99
2015- 5-21-  General code penalty                                                            10.99
3     2015
2015- 6-18-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             31.02
4     2015
2015- 7-16-                                                                                  92.015 -
5     2015   Nuisances                                                                       92.019,
                                                                                             92.999
2015- 7-16-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
6     2015
                                                                                             30.03 -
                                                                                             30.06 ,
                                                                                             31.34,
                                                                                             50.013,
                                                                                             50.024,
                                                                                             50.068,
                                                                                             52.01,
                                                                                             52.13,
                                                                                             53.07,
                                                                                             71.03,
2015- 9-3-   Council meetings                                                                71.99;
7     2015                                                                                   Ch. 74,
                                                                                             Sch. III;
                                                                                             90.03,
                                                                                             90.32,
                                                                                             91.044 -
                                                                                             91.046,
                                                                                             91.055,
                                                                                             91.116,
                                                                                             91.999,
                                                                                             112.03,
                                                                                             133.05
2015- 9-3-   Water service charges                                                           50.009
8     2015
2015- 9-3-   Water and sewer minimum charges and basic user rates                            50.083
9     2015
2015- 10-15- Speed limits                                                                    Ch. 73,
10    2015                                                                                   Sch. III
2015- 10-15- Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
11    2015
2015- 10-15- Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
12    2015
2015- 12-17- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
13    2015
2016- 2-4-   Vacation                                                                        TSO III
1     2016
2016- 6-16-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             31.02
2     2016
2016- 6-16-  Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
3     2016
2016- 7-21-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
4     2016
2016- 7-21-  Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
5     2016
2016- 12-1-  Adopting 2016 Supplement                                                        Adopting
6     2016                                                                                   Ordinance
2016- 12-1-  Amending general penalty                                                        10.99
7     2016
2016- 12-15- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
8     2016
2017- 6-1-   Council meetings; telephone attendance                                          30.09
1     2017
2017- 6-15-  Prevailing Wage Act                                                             31.02
2     2017
2017- 7-6-   Liquified petroleum gases                                                       92.036,
3     2017                                                                                   92.037
2017- 7-20-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
4     2017
2017- 9-7-   Amend employee handbook                                                         N/A
5     2017
2017- 11-2-  Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
6     2017
2017- 11-2-  Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
7     2017
2017- 11-2-  Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
8     2017
2017- 11-2-  Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
9     2017
2017- 11-2-  Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
10    2017
2017- 12-7-  Employee residency                                                              Repeal
11    2017                                                                                   31.01
2017- 12-21- Water/sewer - delinquency notice                                                50.013
12    2017
2017- 12-21- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
13    2017
2018- 1-4-   Sexual harassment policy                                                        31.01
1     2018
2018- 6-7-   Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
2     2018
2018- 6-21-  Prevailing wage                                                                 31.02
3     2018
2018- 7-19-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
4     2018
2018-       Intentionally omitted                                                            
5
2018- 8-16-  Renaming street                                                                 N/A
6     2018
2018- 12-20- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
7     2018
2018- 12-20- Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
8     2018
2019- 7-11-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
1     2019
2019- - -    Street dedication                                                               N/A
2
2019- 9-19-  Water service charges                                                           50.009
3     2019
2019- 12-5-  Prohibiting cannabis business establishments                                    113.01 -
4     2019                                                                                   113.04
2019- 12-19- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
5     2019
2020- 1-16-  Non-highway vehicles                                                            72.15 -
1     2020                                                                                   72.17
2020- 1-16-  Golf cart permits                                                               72.03
2     2020
2020- 5-7-   Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
3     2020
2020- 5-7-   Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
4     2020
2020- 7-16-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
6     2020
2020- 9-17-  Coronavirus program                                                             N/A
7     2020
2020- 12-17- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
8     2020
2021- 1-7-   Sexual harassment policy                                                        31.01
1     2021
2021- 4-1-   Annexation                                                                      TSO IV
2     2021
2021- 4-1-   Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
3     2021
2021- 6-3-   Rezoning                                                                        TSO V
4     2021
2021- 7-15-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
5     2021
2021- 8-5-   Tax abatement                                                                   N/A
6     2021
2021- 9-17-  Raffles and poker runs                                                          114.01 -
7     2021                                                                                   114.09
2021- 11-18- Tax abatement                                                                   N/A
8     2021
2021- 12-16- Appropriations                                                                  N/A
9     2021
2022- 6-2-   Solid waste receptacles; exclusive authority                                    53.10
1     2022
2022- 7-21-  Appropriations                                                                  N/A
2     2022
2022- 8-4-   Garbage and refuse; service charges                                             53.07
3     2022
2022- 10-6-  Compensation for elected officials, Liquor Control Commissioner, and City       N/A
4     2022   Attorney
2022- 12-15- Tax abatement                                                                   N/A
5     2022
2022- 12-15- Tax levy                                                                        N/A
6     2022
                                                                                           
 
 
 
