CITY CODE
of
NAUVOO, ILLINOIS
1989
Code current through:
Ord. 2019-2, passed 7-9-2019
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
One West Fourth Street  *  3rd Floor  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Nauvoo, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 2019-2, passed 7-9-2019.  Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
                     Sterling Codifiers
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1991-5
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF NAUVOO, ILLINOIS
   WHEREAS, The City Council for the City of Nauvoo, Illinois has determined
that it would be in the best interest of the City to codify the Ordinances of
the City, and
   WHEREAS, The City Council for the City of Nauvoo, Illinois has had the City
Ordinances codified by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., has reviewed and revised the
draft copy and has now been furnished with a completed City Code for the City
of Nauvoo, Illinois, and
   WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the City that the revised City Code
be adopted as the City Code of Nauvoo, Illinois.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Nauvoo, Illinois, an
Illinois municipal corporation, as follows:
   1.  From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City Code of
Nauvoo, Illinois, an Illinois municipal corporation, prepared by Sterling
codifiers, Inc., contains a compilation of all Ordinances of a general nature
together with the changes made to said Ordinances, under the direction of the
governing body of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as
the Official Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   2.  There is hereby adopted, the method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
whereby each newly adopted Ordinance of a general and permanent nature
amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the Official City Code is
identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the proper place in the
official copy, certified as to correctness and available for inspection at any
and all times that the office of the City Clerk is regularly open.
   3.  All Ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City Code
shall be considered as a continuation of said Ordinance provision and the fact
that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing body
shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
Ordinances included in said Official City Code. All Ordinances of a special
nature such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the Official City
Code. Such Ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City
Code.
   4.  It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or
amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the Official City Code,
or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or alter or tamper with such
Official City Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the
City to be misrepresented thereby.
   5.  All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   6.  This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval and publication as provided by law.
   Passed and adopted by the City Council of Nauvoo, Illinois, on the 14th day
of January, 1992.
   /s/    J. Dale Bruegger   
   Mayor         
ATTEST:
/s/  M. Jane Hamma   
      Clerk
            AYES:     6 
            NAYS:     0 
            ABSENT:     0 
 
Published:   February 12, 1992 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Official City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
Mayor And City Council   5
Officers And Employees   6
  Police Chief   6A
  City Clerk   6B
  City Treasurer   6C
  Assistant City Collector   6D
  City Attorney   6E
  City Engineer   6F
  Superintendent Of Streets   6G
  Superintendent Of Waterworks   6H
  City Collector   6I
  City Building Inspector   6J
Elections   7
Corporate Seal And Boundaries   8
Ordinances   9
Finances   10
State Officials And Employees Ethics Act   11
Tax Rights And Responsibility   12
Freedom Of Information Act   13
Administrative Adjudication   14
Fair Housing   15
Public Safety Employee Benefits   16
Sexual Harassment   17
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Nauvoo. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the NAUVOO CITY CODE, and it is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date as provided
in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause,
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1989 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1989 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1989 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said codebooks, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1989 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1989 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1989 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1989 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Nauvoo, county of Hancock, state of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Nauvoo".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Nauvoo".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of right in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1989 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty; Fine
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: PENALTY; FINE:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
the maximum fine imposed by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1 for any one
(1) offense (currently $750.00) and may be required to pay related fees and
costs. (Ord. 2013-9, 3-11-2014)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person convicted of a
violation of any section of this Code where a duty is prescribed or obligation
imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is
declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the Prosecuting Officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one (1) recovery shall be had against
the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1989 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1989
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Composition
1-5-2: Mayor
1-5-3: Meetings Of The Council
1-5-4: Presiding Officer; Vote
1-5-5: Rules Of Order
1-5-6: Mayor, Aldermen Not To Hold Other Public Office
1-5-7: Committees Of The Council
1-5-1: COMPOSITION:
The city council of the city shall consist of a mayor and aldermen, consisting
of two (2) aldermen elected from each ward in the city 1 . (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-7-1 of this title for election ward boundaries.
1-5-2: MAYOR:
   A.   Oath, Bond, Term: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
mayor elect of the city shall take and subscribe and file with the city clerk
the oath of office prescribed by law 1 , and in addition thereto shall execute
a bond with one or more freeholders as security thereon in the penal sum of
three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), the premium for such bond to be paid for by
the city, conditioned that he will pay over all monies coming into his hands by
virtue of his said office, and that he will well and truly and faithfully
perform all the duties of his said office enjoined upon him by the laws of the
state of Illinois and the laws and ordinances of the city, according to the
best of his skill and ability, which bond shall be made payable to the city for
the use of the people of the state of Illinois, and shall be held for the
security of the city and the benefit of all persons who may be injured by the
official acts or misconduct of such mayor. Such bond shall be approved by the
city council and filed with the clerk within ten (10) days after the canvass of
the election returns by the city council and proper notice given him by the
county and in default thereof it shall be the duty of the city council to
declare the said office of mayor vacant and order another election to fill the
said office. The mayor shall hold his office for four (4) years and until his
successor shall be elected and qualified.
   B.   Duties: The mayor, besides being the presiding officer of the city
council, shall be the chief executive officer of the city, and shall also
perform the following duties: (Ord. VI, Art. I, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
      1.   He shall, annually, and from time to time, give the council
information relative to the affairs of the city, and shall recommend for their
consideration such measures as he may deem expedient.
      2.   He shall diligently and faithfully inquire into offenses arising
under the ordinances of the city and report the same to the proper officer
whose duty it may be to see that the offender be punished.
      3.   He shall, annually at the regular meeting of the city council in the
month of May, appoint all standing committees and such officers as are or may
be provided for by appointment under any of the ordinances of the city, and
shall, also, at such other times as may be required by ordinance or the
council, appoint special committees to perform certain duties that may be
designated.
      4.   He shall have all the authority and powers conferred on him by
ordinance of the city not repugnant to the laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord.
VI, Art. I, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code; 1991)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-5-3: MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall have at least twelve (12)
regular meetings during each year, to be held in a room provided therefor by
the council, on the second Tuesday of each and every month, at the hour of
seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M., except when said second Tuesday shall happen
to be a public holiday, in which case the council shall meet at the designated
hour on the following day; and adjourned meetings may be held for the purpose
of completing the unfinished business of the regular meetings at such time or
times as may be determined by the council. (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899; amd. 1991)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or any three (3) of the aldermen may call
special meetings of the city council, by signing a written call therefor,
notifying the members of said council of the time and place of such meeting,
which notice shall be served by the marshal by reading the same to such members
as are named therein, or leaving a copy thereof at his residence with some
member of his household over ten (10) years old, at least twenty four (24)
hours before the time fixed for such meeting. In case of the absence or
inability of the marshal to serve such notice, the same may be served by a
deputy, any one of the aldermen or the city clerk. In such notice shall be
stated the object and purpose of such meeting; and no business shall be
transacted at any special meeting, except such as the meeting was called for
and notification given thereof, unless by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the
aldermen elected. (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Quorum: A majority of the aldermen elected shall constitute a quorum to
do business. Should a quorum fail to attend any meeting, either regular or
special, the members attending may adjourn to a day and hour to be fixed by
them and the marshal shall serve notice on the absent members, of the time and
place of such adjourned meeting. (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899; amd. 1991)
1-5-4: PRESIDING OFFICER; VOTE:
The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the city council, but shall have no
vote, excepting in case of a tie vote, when he shall have the casting or
deciding vote. Should the mayor fail to attend any meeting of the council, the
aldermen present shall decide upon one of their number to serve as mayor pro
tem. (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899)
1-5-5: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Order Of Business: A quorum being present and the council called to
order, they shall proceed to business in the following order:
      1.   Calling the roll of members by the clerk. (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899)
      2.   Reading of minutes of the last meeting, and correcting any errors
which may appear therein, or correcting any errors and then approving the
minutes as previously mailed to all members. (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989
Code)
      3.   Receiving reports of special committees.
      4.   Receiving reports of standing committees.
      5.   Receiving petitions.
      6.   Auditing and acting upon accounts presented to the council.
      7.   The order of the day.
      8.   Any other business which may be brought before the council for
consideration. (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899; amd. 1991)
   B.   Members Arriving After Roll Call: Any member arriving after roll call
may, by consent of the council, have his name entered on the minutes as
present, such entry, however, to show the precise time at which he took his
seat.
   C.   Parliamentary Procedures:
      1.   The city council, in its deliberation and transaction of business
while in session, shall be governed by established parliamentary usage.
      2.   Any member shall have the right to call for the ayes and nays on any
vote which may be taken by the council, provided he does so before the result
of the vote taken is announced by the mayor.
      3.   In all cases of a tie vote, it shall be the duty of the mayor or
other presiding officer, before proceeding to decide the matter by his vote, to
call the ayes and nays, if there should still be a tie, he shall then decide
the matter by his vote.
      4.   No vote of the city council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at
any special meeting thereof, unless at such special meeting there shall be
present as many aldermen as were present when such vote was taken.
   D.   Conduct Of Members: It shall be the duty of all members of the city
council to preserve decorum and conduct themselves in an orderly manner. Should
any member fail so to conduct himself, he shall be called to order, and should
he, after being so called to order, persist in his disorderly conduct, he
shall, on the order of the mayor or other presiding officer, be expelled from
the room during the remainder of such meeting, and may be subject to a fine for
disturbing the peace, under any ordinance of the city providing a penalty for
disturbing the peace within the limits of the city.
   E.   Expulsion Of Members; Procedure: The city council shall have the right
to expel any member thereof, on a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the aldermen
elect. It shall, however, be necessary for the purpose of expelling any member
for any offense whatsoever, that specific charges in writing shall be made
against him, which shall be filed with the city clerk, who shall immediately
notify the marshal thereof; that a time shall be fixed by the council for the
hearing of said charges, of which the accused shall have five (5) days' notice
in writing, served by the marshal. Such offender shall have a right to be heard
touching such charges, either by himself or counsel, and if the council shall
find the accused guilty of the offense charged, they may expel him from his
office by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members elect.
   F.   Meetings Open: All meetings of the city council shall be held with open
doors, and all persons conducting themselves in a quiet and orderly manner
shall have a right to attend its meetings.
   G.   Right To Be Heard: Any person having any business with the city council
shall have the right to be heard himself or by counsel or agent. (Ord. XI, 9-
15-1899)
1-5-6: MAYOR, ALDERMEN NOT TO HOLD OTHER PUBLIC OFFICE:
No member of the city council, either as mayor or alderman, shall be eligible
to any other office, either by election or appointment, during his continuance
in office as such mayor or alderman. (Ord. XI, 9-15-1899)
1-5-7: COMMITTEES OF THE COUNCIL:
   A.   Finance Committee:
      1.   At the regular May meeting of the city council of each and every
year, which meeting shall be the commencement of the fiscal year, the mayor
shall appoint three (3) members of the city council to serve as a finance
committee for such year.
      2.   It shall be the duty of said committee to examine the books and
accounts of all the officers of the city, and make full report after receiving
the audit report. In such report shall be set forth an account of all monies
received and from what sources received, and all monies expended and for what
purposes expended by the city as near as may be practicable, during the fiscal
year. (Ord. X, 10-7-1899; amd. 1989 Code; 1991)
      3.   It shall be the duty of said committee to carefully examine and
audit all bills presented against the city, at each meeting of the city council
and report to the council, making in such reports such recommendations as they
may see fit and proper in relation to all such claims as shall have been
submitted to them.
      4.   The reports of said committee shall not be conclusive, but shall be
acted upon by the city council. (Ord. X, 10-7-1899)
   B.   Cemetery Committee:
      1.   At the regular May meeting of the city council of each year, the
mayor shall appoint a committee of two (2) persons, members of the city
council, to serve as a cemetery committee.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the cemetery committee to maintain
supervision over the cemeteries of the city, and to have the same kept in good
condition and neat in appearance as to such committee may seem proper.
      3.   The said committee shall have the power to have all necessary
improvements and repairs made to the grounds, fences or buildings thereon, not
to exceed the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), and shall from time
to time make report to the city council, informing the council of his acts and
doings in relation thereto.
      4.   All claims presented against the city on account of labor performed
or material furnished for any repairs or improvements made on such cemeteries
shall, before the allowance of the same, be approved by the cemetery committee.
(Ord. VIII, 10-7-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
      5.   All graves in the city cemetery shall have grave liners of precast
concrete placed within the grave after it is opened and prior to any human body
being interred in the city cemetery. It shall be the duty of the cemetery
committee to enforce this regulation. (Ord. 1997-7, 1-13-1998)
   C.   Streets, Buildings And Grounds Committee:
      1.   At the regular May meeting of the city council of each year, it
being the commencement of the official year, the mayor shall appoint one
alderman from each ward to constitute a streets, buildings and grounds
committee.
      2.   Said committee shall, from time to time, apprise the council of the
condition of the streets, buildings and grounds in the several wards and inform
the council as to the proper manner to repair or improve the same and make such
plans and offer to the council such suggestions and propositions in relation to
the improvement of the same as in their judgment shall appear to the interest
of the city. (Ord. XXXIII, 10-2-1899; amd. 1989 Code; 1991; Ord. 2008-13, 4-28-
2009)
   D.   Nuisance Committee: The nuisance committee shall consist of three (3)
aldermen whose duties shall consist of apprising the council of the condition
of nuisances within the city. (1991)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Officers Of The City
1-6-2: Terms Of Office
1-6-3: Qualifications Of Officers
1-6-4: Compensation
1-6-1: OFFICERS OF THE CITY:
   A.   Elected Officials:
      1.   The officers of the city, in addition to a city mayor, city council,
city clerk, and city treasurer, may consist of a city marshal, deputy marshal,
city superintendent of streets and city engineer.
      2.   All said officers, except the city treasurer, city marshal, deputy
marshal, superintendent of streets and engineer, shall be elected by a vote of
the electors of the city, and hold their respective offices until their
successors shall be duly elected and qualified, the aldermen of each ward to be
elected only by the vote of the electors of such ward.
      3.   The mayor may, at the regular May meeting of the city council of
each year, with the concurrence of the city council, appoint a city attorney,
city treasurer, city marshal, city superintendent of streets, city
superintendent of waterworks and city engineer; and in case of vacancy in any
of said offices the same may be filled in like manner at any meeting of the
council. (Ord. V, 9-15-1899; amd. Ord. 240, 5-3-1937; 1989 Code; Ord. 1992-4,
11-10-1992, eff. 5-1-1993)
   B.   Nonelected Officials:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, all nonelected officials
of the city shall be hired by a majority of the city council;
      2.   The mayor or mayor pro tem may recommend to the council the mayor's
preference as to the employees to be hired;
      3.   The rejection of the mayor's recommendation by a majority of the
council shall open to the council its recommendations as to the hiring of the
officials of the city. (Ord., 6-7-1972)
1-6-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the mayor, aldermen, and city clerk shall be four (4)
years; and the term of office of the city attorney, city treasurer, city
marshal, city superintendent of streets, city superintendent of waterworks and
city engineer shall be one year. (Ord. V, 9-15-1899; amd. Ord. 240, 5-3-1937;
1989 Code; 1991; Ord. 1992-4, 11-10-1992, eff. 5-1-1993)
1-6-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   No person shall be eligible to any office who is not a qualified
elector of the city, and who shall not have resided in the city at least one
year next preceding his election. Provided, that no person shall be eligible to
the office of alderman unless he shall be a resident within the ward for which
he is elected, nor shall he be eligible if he is in arrears in the payment of
any tax or other liability due to the city, nor shall he be eligible if he
shall have been convicted of malfeasance, bribery or other corrupt practices or
crimes nor shall he be eligible to any office, the salary of which is payable
out of the city treasury, if at the time of his appointment he shall be a
member of the city council; nor shall any member of the city council at the
same time hold any other office under the city government.
   B.   No person shall be eligible to more than one city office at the same
time, either by election or appointment. (Ord. V, 9-15-1899; amd. 1991)
1-6-4: COMPENSATION:
The officers and employees of the city shall receive such salaries as shall be
determined from time to time by the city council. (1989 Code)
ARTICLE A.  POLICE CHIEF
SECTION:
1-6A-0: Designation
1-6A-1: Appointment; Term; Oath
1-6A-2: General Duties
1-6A-3: Hours On Duty
1-6A-4: City Police Officers
1-6A-5: Part Time Police Officers
1-6A-0: DESIGNATION:
The city marshal is hereby eliminated as a position in the city. All duties
that were performed by the city marshal are devolved to and are to be performed
by the police chief. Any subsequent reference to the city marshal in this code
shall be deemed a reference to the police chief, unless the context deems
otherwise. (Ord. 2005-7, 9-13-2005)
1-6A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM; OATH:
The police chief shall be appointed at the regular meeting in the month of May
and hold his office for the term of one year and until his successor is
appointed and qualified. Before entering upon the duties of his office, he
shall take the oath of office prescribed by law. (Ord. 240, 5-3-1937; amd. Ord.
316, 7-2-1951; 1989 Code; Ord. 2005-7, 9-13-2005)
1-6A-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The police chief shall be a conservator of the peace in the city, and shall:
(Ord. VI, Art. II, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2005-7, 9-13-2005)
   A.   Have authority, and it is hereby made his duty to serve all processes
which may come into his hands, in which the city is a party, and it is further
made his duty to arrest on view and without warrant, all rioters and other
disorderly persons, also all persons engaged in any affrays, routs or unlawful
assemblies; also all persons engaged in any assaults, assaults and batteries or
any other breaches of the peace, or whom he may see violating or attempting to
violate any ordinance of the city; and all persons of suspicious character, and
bring such persons before a court of competent jurisdiction, to be dealt with
according to law.
   B.   Inquire into and report to the mayor or city council all violations of
ordinances of the city, whether the same shall have been committed within his
view or shall otherwise come to his knowledge, and in all such cases he shall
make complaint against such offenders and serve all processes which may be
issued in such cases, when process is necessary. (Ord. VI, Art. II, 9-15-1899;
amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   In the execution of his duty, have full power and authority to call to
his assistance, when necessary, the aid of any citizen or citizens of the city.
If any person required or commanded by the police chief to assist him in the
execution of any duty required of him shall neglect, fail or refuse to assist
such police chief, the person so offending shall forfeit and pay unto the city
the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00).
If any person shall wilfully resist, hinder or obstruct the police chief or
deputy police chief or any of his assistants, or any other officer in the
service of any process under any law or ordinance of the city charged with the
service of such process, or shall resist, hinder or obstruct the said police
chief, his assistants or other officer, in the enforcement of any law or
ordinance of the city, or resist, hinder or obstruct any such officer in the
discharge of any duty whatsoever, arising under any law or ordinance of the
city, or arising under any resolution or order of the city council or command
of the mayor, the person so offending shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. VI, Art. II, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2005-7,
9-13-2005)
   D.   Keep a full and correct record, in a book provided for that purpose, of
all arrests made by him, or any other officer of the city as the same may come
to his knowledge, and of all cases prosecuted for violations of the ordinances,
and the manner in which such cases shall finally be disposed of, and he shall
make a written report thereof, monthly, to the city council.
   E.   In subordination to the city mayor, have charge of all measures in
relation to preserving the peace and quiet and protecting persons and property
in the city. (Ord. VI, Art. II, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
   F.   In all cases of wilful omission of duty or neglect of any duty imposed
upon the police chief, either by the mayor, the city council, or any law or
ordinance of the city, or law of the state of Illinois, or if he shall be
guilty of malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in his said office, for each
and every such offense, excepting in cases otherwise provided for by ordinance,
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title, and may be removed from said office at the discretion of
the city council. (Ord. VI, Art. II, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2005-7, 9-
13-2005)
   G.   Perform all such other duties in enforcing the ordinances of the city
as now are or may hereafter be imposed upon him by the mayor, city council or
ordinances. (Ord. VI, Art. II, 9-15-1899)
1-6A-3: HOURS ON DUTY:
The police chief shall be on duty in the city during such hours as shall be
determined by the city council. (Ord. 316, 7-2-1951; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2005-
7, 9-13-2005)
1-6A-4: CITY POLICE OFFICERS:
The city mayor may, with the concurrence of the city council, appoint as many
city police officers as they may think necessary to assist the police chief, on
such occasions as they, in their discretion, may deem proper, to preserve the
peace or protect persons and property. Such city police officers shall take the
same oath as other officers, and shall be held liable for any violations of law
or omission of duty and be held subject to the same penalties as is provided by
ordinance for the police chief. Every city police officer, while on duty as
such officer, shall wear a star similar to those usually worn by peace
officers, as an insignia of his office. (Ord. VI, Art. II, 9-15-1899; amd. Ord.
2005-7, 9-13-2005)
1-6A-5: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Employment: The city of Nauvoo may employ part time police officers
from time to time, as it deems necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all of the
responsibilities of a full time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in this code as well as in the guidelines and policies of the city
police department; however, the number of hours that a part time officer may
work within a calendar year is restricted, and he or she shall not be assigned
to supervise or direct full time police officers. Part time officers shall be
trained in accordance with the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules
and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or a GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Have been honorably discharged, if he or she has served in the U.S.
military.
   D.   Discipline: Part time police officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time officers serve at the discretion
of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment,
and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part time officers
shall comply with all applicable rules, orders, and guidelines issued by the
city and the police department. (Ord. 2011-11, 3-13-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
ARTICLE B.  CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Election; Oath And Bond
1-6B-2: General Duties
1-6B-3: Neglect Of Duty
1-6B-1: ELECTION; OATH AND BOND:
Within ten (10) days after the canvass of the election returns by which he is
declared elected, the city clerk shall take and subscribe the oath of office
prescribed by law, and shall also, within said time, execute a bond in such
amount as provided by statute 1 , payable to the city, conditioned that he will
well and truly and faithfully perform all the duties of said office of clerk of
the city, according to the ordinances of the city, and pay over all monies that
may come into his hands by virtue of said office according to the ordinances of
the city, which bond shall be approved by the city council and filed with the
city treasurer, to be held by him as security for the city. (Ord. VI, Art. III,
9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-6B-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The city clerk shall:
   A.   Keep the corporate seal, attend all city council meetings and keep a
full record of its proceedings and the business of each meeting in a journal
and specifically, the motions, resolutions, and ordinances passed, rejected or
tabled, and make all necessary corrections thereof under the direction of the
city council, which journal, when so corrected, shall be evidence of the facts
stated therein, and shall also transcribe all ordinances passed by the city
council in a book kept specifically for that purpose. Copies of all papers duly
filed in the clerk's office and transcripts of the journals and other records
and files of the clerk's office, certified by the clerk under the corporate
seal, are hereby proven and shall be evidence in all courts in the same manner
as if the originals were produced.
   B.   To accept other responsibilities for which the city clerk is qualified
and which the city council deems are appropriate for the city clerk and such
other duties as the statutes of the state require now or in the future.
   C.   At the expiration of the city clerk's term of office, to deliver to the
successor in office the corporate seal of the city, all books, papers, fixtures
and property pertaining to the city clerk's office. (Ord. 1992-6, 12-8-1992,
eff. 5-1-1993)
   D.   See section
1-6D-3 of this chapter for duties of assistant city collector. (1991)
1-6B-3: NEGLECT OF DUTY:
Should any clerk of the city be guilty of any neglect or omission of duty as
required of him by the ordinances of the city, or be guilty of any misfeasance,
malfeasance or nonfeasance in said office, excepting in cases otherwise
provided for in the ordinances of the city, such officer shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this title, and may be removed from said office at the discretion of
the city council. (Ord. VI, Art. III, 6-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
ARTICLE C.  CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Appointment; Oath And Bond
1-6C-2: General Duties
1-6C-3: Deliver Books To Successor
1-6C-4: Neglect Of Duty
1-6C-1: APPOINTMENT; OATH AND BOND:
The city treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city
council at the first regular meeting of the fiscal year (regular May meeting)
for a term of one year and until his successor in office shall be appointed and
qualified. The city treasurer shall take the oath of office required by law,
and shall also be required to execute bond with sufficient security in such
amount as provided by statute 1 , payable to the city, for the use of all
persons interested, and conditioned that he will well and truly and faithfully
perform all the duties imposed upon him by the laws of the state of Illinois,
and the ordinances of the city, and that he will pay over all monies which may
come into his hands by virtue of his said office of treasurer of the city, when
payment of the same shall be demanded or required of him, which bond shall be
approved by the city council, and said bond and oath shall be filed with the
clerk of the city and shall be held as security for all persons who shall be
injured by the official misconduct of said treasurer. (Ord. VI, Art. IV, 9-15-
1899; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 1992-4, 11-10-1992, eff. 5-1-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-6C-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The city treasurer shall:
   A.   Responsibilities: Maintain an accurate accounting of all funds, fund
balances and reconcile the same monthly; receive all monies from all sources in
the name of the city or accept deposit slips from the collector for deposits
made to the city depository in the name of the city; present to the city
council on a monthly basis a true and accurate report of the finances of the
city; assist the collector in preparing for the annual audit and present all
ledgers, deposit books and notes to the auditors for examination; pursuant to
ordinance 1986-4, making the city treasurer a permanent member of the hotel/
motel tax governing board, shall attend all meetings of the hotel/motel tax
governing board; to learn all aspects of the collector's job; accept other
responsibilities for which the city treasurer is qualified and which the city
council deems are appropriate for the city treasurer. The job description and
general duties of the city treasurer and the salary or other compensation to
the city treasurer may be changed at any time by a majority vote of the city
council and in accordance with the statutes of the state. (Ord. 1992-4, 11-10-
1992, eff. 5-1-1993)
   B.   Books Of Account: Charge himself, in his books of accounts, with all
sums received on account of the city, specifying when, and from whom received,
and shall be allowed to credit himself with all monies disbursed by him under
the order and direction of the city council.
   C.   Books Open To Public, Reports: The books of the treasurer shall be
public documents, open to the inspection of all persons interested therein, and
it is hereby made the duty of the finance committee to inspect the same at any
time it may become necessary, and to compare the same with the treasurer's
account as kept by the city clerk, and it shall be the duty of the treasurer to
make a final report at the regular meeting in the month of May, at which time
his term of office expires, which report shall show the amount of revenue
received, how derived and how disbursed, and shall show the state of finance in
the city, which report, if correct, shall be approved and placed on file, and
shall be published in a newspaper printed and published in the city to be
designated by the city council. (Ord. VI, Art. IV, 9-15-1899; amd. 1991)
1-6C-3: DELIVER BOOKS TO SUCCESSOR:
The treasurer, upon the expiration of his term of office, shall deliver unto
his successor in office all the books, accounts, monies, papers and securities
pertaining to his said office. (Ord. VI, Art. IV, 9-15-1899)
1-6C-4: NEGLECT OF DUTY:
If the treasurer shall omit, neglect or fail to perform any of the duties
required of him by the ordinances and laws of the city, and the laws of the
state of Illinois, he shall be deemed guilty of malfeasance in office, and
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title, and may be removed from office. The penalty imposed herein
shall not bar a prosecution against such treasurer and his securities on his
bond nor shall bar any indictment under the criminal laws of the state of
Illinois, for such malfeasance in office. (Ord. VI, Art. IV, 9-15-1899; amd.
1989 Code)
ARTICLE D.  ASSISTANT CITY COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Appointment
1-6D-2: Bond
1-6D-3: General Duties
1-6D-1: APPOINTMENT:
If necessary, the mayor, by and with the concurrence of the city council, shall
appoint an assistant city collector who shall hold office for a term of one
year and until his successor shall be appointed and qualified. (Ord. 259, 9-7-
1939; amd. 1991)
1-6D-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the assistant city collector
shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00), with security thereon which shall be approved by the city council,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his office, and the
proper accounting for and payment of all monies that shall come into his hands
by virtue of his office, and that he will properly care for and deliver to his
successor in office all of his books, papers and files of his office. (Ord.
259, 9-7-1939; amd. 1991)
1-6D-3: GENERAL DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the assistant city collector to collect any and all
amounts which may be due the city in relation to any special assessment which
may have been levied by the board of local improvements of the city and
confirmed by the county court of Hancock County, Illinois, and pay the same out
as required by law. It shall also be the duty of the assistant city collector
to make reports to the city council as and when directed. (Ord. 259, 9-7-1939;
amd. 1991)
ARTICLE E.  CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Appointment
1-6E-2: Oath And Bond
1-6E-3: General Duties
1-6E-4: Reports
1-6E-5: Neglect Of Duty
1-6E-1: APPOINTMENT:
The mayor, by and with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a city
attorney who shall act and hold his office for a term of one year, and until
his successor in office shall be appointed and qualified. (Ord. 254, 6-9-1939)
No person shall be eligible to the office of city attorney unless such person
shall be an attorney at law, regularly admitted to practice law under the laws
of the state of Illinois. (Ord. V, 9-15-1899)
1-6E-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city attorney shall take the
prescribed oath of office and enter into bond with good and sufficient
security, in such amount as provided by statute 1 , payable to the city for the
use of the city and all persons who may be interested in the conduct of the
city attorney, said bond to be conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duties in said office, and that he will pay over to the city or to any person
entitled thereto, all monies that shall come into his hands by reason of his
holding said office, and which bond shall be approved by the city council and
filed with the city clerk, who shall be the custodian thereof. (Ord. VI, Art.
VI, 1899; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-6E-3: GENERAL DUTIES:
The city attorney shall attend the meetings of the city council whenever
required to do so by the mayor or city council. He shall be the legal adviser
of the council, and whenever his opinions may be required by the council in any
matter pertaining to the affairs of the city, shall give the same in writing,
if so requested. He shall prosecute all offenses arising under the ordinances
of the city which may come to his knowledge or be reported to him. The said
attorney shall have control of said cases and shall in all matters in such
cases use sound, legal discretion, and may dismiss a case pending if, in his
opinion, it cannot be sustained. He shall also represent the city in all cases
brought against the city, in any and all cases whatsoever pending in any of the
courts, and in all cases commenced by the city in any court whatsoever, and in
the employment of counsel to assist in any such prosecution, he shall be
consulted by the city council in relation to the selection of such counsel.
(Ord. VI, Art. VI, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
1-6E-4: REPORTS:
The city attorney shall report monthly to the regular meetings of the city
council the number of cases disposed of, how disposed of, the names of the
defendants, the nature of the charges against them, the number of acquittals
and number of convictions, the number of fines assessed, and what costs, if
any, are taxed against the city in cases where the prosecution has failed.
(Ord. VI, Art. VI, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
1-6E-5: NEGLECT OF DUTY:
If any city attorney shall be guilty of malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance
in the discharge of his said duties under this chapter, he shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this title, and may be removed from office in the manner provided for
by ordinance of the city. (Ord. VI, Art. VI, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
ARTICLE F.  CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Appointment; Oath
1-6F-2: General Duties
1-6F-1: APPOINTMENT; OATH:
The mayor, at the regular May meeting of the city council, shall appoint a
competent person to act in the official capacity of city engineer, who shall
take the oath of office prescribed by law, before entering upon the duties of
his office. (Ord. VII, 10-7-1899)
1-6F-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The city engineer shall perform such duties as may be properly imposed upon him
by any order of the city council or any ordinance that may exist or hereafter
be passed in relation to any public improvement in the city, or that may be
enjoined upon him by the laws of the state of Illinois, and shall receive
proper compensation for such services as he shall perform for the city, same to
be allowed to him by the city council and paid out of the city treasury. (Ord.
VII, 10-7-1899)
ARTICLE G.  SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS
SECTION:
1-6G-1: Appointment
1-6G-2: Oath And Bond
1-6G-3: General Duties
1-6G-4: Reports
1-6G-1: APPOINTMENT:
At the regular meeting of the city council in the month of May of each year,
the mayor, by and with the concurrence of the city council, may appoint a city
superintendent of streets, who shall hold his office for the term of one year
and until his successor shall be appointed and qualified. (Ord. VI, Art. VII,
9-15-1899; amd. 1991)
1-6G-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the superintendent of streets
shall take the oath of office prescribed by law, and shall execute a bond to
the city in such sum as provided by statute 1 , with security thereon which
shall be approved by the city council, conditioned for the faithful performance
of the duties of his office, and the proper accounting for and payment of all
monies that shall come into his hands by virtue of his office, and that he will
properly care for and deliver to his successor in office all tools, implements
and other property in his hands belonging to the city. (Ord. VI, Art. VII, 9-
15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-6G-3: GENERAL DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the superintendent of streets to keep a list of
all implements, tools, materials and other property belonging to the city,
which may come into his possession, and at the end of his term of office to
properly account for and deliver same to his successor. A list of such
inventory shall be kept on file at the office of the city clerk. (Ord. VI, Art.
VII, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   The superintendent of streets shall perform the duty of superintendent
of street labor of the city under the direction of the mayor who shall be
subject to the orders of the city council in relation thereto, in such matters
as the council in its discretion may from time to time see fit and proper.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the superintendent of streets to cause all
ordinances in relation to streets, alleys and sidewalks to be enforced, and to
prosecute in the name of the city all persons violating such ordinances, and he
shall carry into effect all such orders as he may receive from the mayor, city
council or any committee that may be appointed by the council, and for any
wilful neglect so to do, or to perform any duties required of him by the
ordinances of the city, he shall be liable to be removed from his said office.
(Ord. VI, Art. VII, 9-15-1899)
1-6G-4: REPORTS:
The superintendent of streets shall give a report of work done on a monthly
basis to the streets, buildings and grounds committee of the city council.
(1989 Code; amd. Ord. 2008-13, 4-28-2009)
ARTICLE H.  SUPERINTENDENT OF WATERWORKS
SECTION:
1-6H-1: Appointment, Bond
1-6H-2: General Duties
1-6H-1: APPOINTMENT, BOND:
The superintendent of waterworks may be appointed at the regular meeting in the
month of May and hold his office for the term of one year and until his
successor is appointed and qualified. He shall give a bond in such amount as
provided by statute 1 , with two (2) or more sureties to be approved by the
city council. (Ord. 240, 5-3-1937; amd. 1989 Code; 1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-6H-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
In addition to those duties set out in title 3, chapter 5 of this code, the
duties of the superintendent of the water department shall include supervising
the monthly reading of water meters, the submission of a monthly report to the
city council covering operation of the water plant, and the making of all minor
repairs to the water meters and waterworks system. (Ord. 315, 7-2-1951; amd.
1989 Code)
ARTICLE I.  CITY COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-6I-1: Appointment
1-6I-2: Oath And Bond
1-6I-3: General Duties
1-6I-1: APPOINTMENT:
The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a city collector
at the first regular meeting of the fiscal year (regular May meeting) for a
term of one year and until his successor in office shall be appointed and
qualified. (Ord. 1992-5, 11-10-1992, eff. 5-1-1993; amd. Ord. 1992-7, 2-9-1993,
eff. 5-1-1993)
1-6I-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city collector shall take
and subscribe the oath of office and execute a bond in such an amount as
provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, payable to the city, under the
condition that he will truthfully and faithfully perform all the duties of said
office of city collector, which bond shall be approved by the city council and
filed with the city clerk to be held by him as security for the city. (Ord.
1992-5, 11-10-1992, eff. 5-1-1993; amd. Ord. 1992-7, 2-9-1993, eff. 5-1-1993)
1-6I-3: GENERAL DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city collector to conduct the business of the city
on a day to day basis through utilization of all city ordinances, council
developed policies, and/or direction from the mayor; to issue all permits to
solicit within the city limits based on the ordinance as adopted; to schedule
the use of the city hall, community center and city park when necessary; to
charge and collect, according to the adopted schedule, fees for the use of the
community center; to maintain contact with the city marshal and/or his deputies
concerning the general welfare of the city as information pertaining to local
citizens' needs are transmitted to the city clerk; to assume responsibilities
as chief election official for the city; to maintain and file in records the
hours and wages of the city employees, figure wages, make proper deductions,
and prepare the payroll at the appropriate times; receive and figure meter
readings from water readers and prepare billings and mail billings to the
users; to receive and deposit all monies paid into the city daily and maintain
one deposit slip and forward a second duplicate slip to the treasurer; prepare
listings of all bills presented for payment, coded for appropriation funds, to
the auditing committee for consideration and approval; direct and be
responsible for assignment and duties of the assistant city clerk/assistant
city collector; prepare for distribution the monthly agenda items along with
the minutes of the previous meeting or meetings by the Thursday preceding
monthly city council meeting; to learn all aspects of the city treasurer's job;
to accept all other responsibilities for which the city collector is qualified
and which the city council deems are appropriate for the city collector; and
the job description and general duties of the city collector and the salary or
other compensation to the city collector may be changed at any time by majority
vote of the city council and in accordance with the statutes of the state.
(Ord. 1992-5, 11-10-1992, eff. 5-1-1993; amd. Ord. 1992-7, 2-9-1993, eff. 5-1-
1993)
ARTICLE J.  CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR
SECTION:
1-6J-1: Appointment
1-6J-2: Oath And Bond
1-6J-3: General Duties
1-6J-4: Compensation
1-6J-1: APPOINTMENT:
The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a building
inspector at the first regular meeting of the fiscal year (regular May meeting)
for a term of one year and until a successor in office shall be appointed and
qualified. (Ord. 1998-8, 5-11-1999)
1-6J-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the building inspector shall
take and subscribe an oath of office and execute a bond in such amount as
provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, payable to the city, under the
condition that he will truthfully and faithfully perform all of the duties of
said office of building inspector, which bond shall be approved by the city
council and filed with the city clerk to be held by him as security for the
city. (Ord. 1998-8, 5-11-1999)
1-6J-3: GENERAL DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to review all applications for
building permit and demolition permit, review the project site or sites,
denoting property lines, estimated construction or demolition costs, labor to
be performed and materials to be used, inform adjacent property owners of the
project site if the proposed construction or demolition is in question of
property lines, to approve or disapprove the application for building permit or
application for demolition permit and to make detailed comments concerning his
reasons for approval or disapproval of an application for building permit or
application for demolition permit. If a building permit or demolition permit is
approved, to conduct inspections during construction or demolition for
compliance with the building permit or demolition permit and make such reports
as he deems necessary to the mayor and city council, and to make permanent and
current records concerning applications for building permit or demolition
permit, their approval or disapproval, and inspections during the construction
or demolition and any other duties which may be assigned to him by the mayor or
city council. (Ord. 2000-11, 4-10-2001)
1-6J-4: COMPENSATION:
The building inspector shall be compensated as set forth in the application for
building permit and as set forth in the application for demolition permit,
respectively, as may be amended from time to time by the city council of the
city of Nauvoo, Illinois. (Ord. 2001-9, 10-9-2001)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election Wards; Map
1-7-2: Conduct Of Elections
1-7-1: ELECTION WARDS; MAP:
   A.   First Ward: The boundary line for the first ward of the city shall be
established as follows:
Beginning at a point at the North Boundary of the City of Nauvoo where Page
Street intersects said North Boundary, then South on the centerline of Page
Street to the North line of Section 12, Township 6 North, Range 9 West, thence
East to the corporate limits of the City of Nauvoo.
All that tract or territory lying West of the centerline of Page Street,
including the extension thereof, to the North line of Section 12, Township 6
North, Range 9 West of the fourth principal meridian, thence East to the
corporate limits of the City of Nauvoo, being East of Page Street and South of
the section line, shall henceforth be included within the corporate limits of
the City and shall constitute the "First Ward" of the City.
   B.   Second Ward: The boundary line for the second ward of the city shall be
established as follows:
Beginning at a point on the North Boundary of the City of Nauvoo where Page
Street intersects said North Boundary, thence South on the centerline of Page
Street to the North line of Section 12, Township 6 North, Range 9 West of the
fourth principal meridian, thence East to the centerline of Warsaw Street,
thence North to the centerline of Young Street, thence East to the corporate
limits of the City of Nauvoo.
All that tract or territory lying East of the centerline of Page Street,
including the extension thereof, to the centerline of Warsaw Street and North
of the centerline of Young Street shall henceforth be included within the
corporate limits of the City and shall constitute the "Second Ward" of the
City.
   C.   Third Ward: The boundary line for the third ward of the city shall be
established as follows:
Beginning at the center of the corner of Young Street and Warsaw Street, thence
South on the centerline of Warsaw Street to the North line of Section 12,
Township 6 North, Range 9 West of the fourth principal meridian, thence East
along the section line to the corporate limits of the City of Nauvoo and thence
North to Young Street, and thence West on the centerline of Young Street to the
place of beginning.
All that tract or territory lying to the East of the centerline of Warsaw
Street and to the North of the North line of Section 12, Township 6 North,
Range 9 West of the fourth principal meridian and lying South of the centerline
of Young Street shall henceforth be included within the corporate limits of the
City and shall constitute the "Third Ward" of the City.
   D.   Map: The following is a map of the city of Nauvoo showing the wards as
set out in subsections A through C of this section:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1396.gif]
(Ord. 1998-4, 7-14-1998)
1-7-2: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
City elections shall be conducted according to and in compliance with 10
Illinois Compiled Statutes (1991), as may be amended from time to time by the
Illinois legislature. (Ord. 1998-4, 7-14-1998)
CHAPTER 8
CORPORATE SEAL AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Seal Adopted
1-8-2: Corporate Boundaries
1-8-1: SEAL ADOPTED:
The seal heretofore used by the city, the impression of which is a circle, in
the center of which is a cluster of grapes, a grape leaf, stem and tendrils,
circling above and partly around which, in large letters, are the words "City
of Nauvoo, Ill's", and beneath the same in large letters the words "Seal", and
on each side thereof a star, is hereby established and declared to be, and to
have been heretofore, the seal of the city.
The city clerk shall be the custodian of said seal. (Ord. II, 9-22-1899)
1-8-2: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the city as established and described by the special charter
granted to the city by the legislature of the state in the year A.D. 1869, with
the addition of Bluff Wood subdivision, as set forth in city ordinances on file
in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. III, 9-22-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ORDINANCES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Ordaining Clause
1-9-2: Procedure For Passage
1-9-3: Veto Powers
1-9-4: Effective Dates
1-9-1: ORDAINING CLAUSE:
The ordaining clause of ordinances of the city shall be: "Be it ordained by the
City Council of the City of Nauvoo". (Ord. 1966-2, 5-10-1966)
1-9-2: PROCEDURE FOR PASSAGE:
   A.   A quorum shall be necessary for the council to pass ordinances. A
quorum shall constitute a majority of the whole number of members elected to
the council. (Ord. 1966-2, 5-10-1966)
   B.   When an ordinance is offered for adoption, its title and subject matter
shall be read in a regular or special meeting of the city council. A proposed
ordinance shall be read three (3) times in three (3) separate meetings unless a
motion to waiver the second and third readings is made and approved.
   C.   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose shall require the
concurrence of a majority of all members elected to the city council, with the
mayor voting only in the case of a tie, unless otherwise expressly provided by
law. Provided, that where the council consists of an odd number of aldermen,
the vote of the majority of the aldermen shall be sufficient to pass an
ordinance. The vote shall be taken by yeas and nays and recorded in the journal
of the city council. (Ord. 1966-2, 5-10-1966; amd. 1989 Code)
1-9-3: VETO POWERS:
The mayor shall exercise the veto power as provided by law 1 . (Ord. 1966-2, 5-
10-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-11-18.
1-9-4: EFFECTIVE DATES:
All ordinances, except as specifically provided by law, shall take effect upon
their passage unless otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 1966-2, 5-10-1966)
CHAPTER 10
FINANCES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Wage Rates For Public Works Projects
1-10-2: Late Payment Charge For Delinquent Billings
1-10-3: Returned Check Service Charges
1-10-4: Capitalization Policy
1-10-5: Attorney Fees
1-10-1: WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS:
To the extent and as required by "an act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by the state, county,
city or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under
contract for public works", approved June 26, 1941, as amended 1 , the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other
workers engaged in the construction of public works coming under the
jurisdiction of the city is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing
rate of wages for construction work in the Hancock County area as determined by
the department of labor of the state of Illinois as of June of the current
year, a copy of that determination being incorporated herein by reference. As
required by said act, any and all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by
the department of labor of the state of Illinois shall supersede the
department's June determination and apply to any and all public works
construction undertaken by the city. The definition of any terms appearing in
this section which are also used in aforesaid act shall be the same as in said
act.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general prevailing
rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except public
works construction of the city to the extent required by the aforesaid act.
The city clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of the city this determination or any
revisions of such prevailing rate of wages. A copy of this determination or of
the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contract specifications.
The city clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and to
any association of employers and to any person or association of employees who
have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any determination
stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers whose wages
will be affected by such rates; and the clerk shall promptly file a certified
copy of this section with both the secretary of state index division and the
department of labor of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 1990-3, 6-12-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 130/1.
1-10-2: LATE PAYMENT CHARGE FOR DELINQUENT BILLINGS 1 :
The city clerk shall impose a two percent (2%) penalty, or one dollar ($1.00)
per billing, whichever is greater, added to each monthly bill for any city
billing unpaid forty (40) days after mailing by said clerk. The two percent
(2%), or one dollar ($1.00), whichever is greater, per month billing shall be
imposed for each month that the bill remains unpaid in full. For purposes of
this section, the forty (40) day time period shall begin on the date of mailing
by the clerk.
The additional penalty referred to herein shall not in any manner prevent the
city from terminating city services to a citizen who has not paid a monthly
bill, and in the enforcement of this section, the city may resort to the
terminology of this section, as well as any other relief by prior or subsequent
ordinances made by the city herein. (Ord. 1989-9, 1-9-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  3-4A-2B of this code.
1-10-3: RETURNED CHECK SERVICE CHARGES:
There shall be a charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per check for any check
returned to the city for nonsufficient funds or for any other reason for any
liability owed to the city by any persons or business. (Ord. 1991-6, 3-10-1992)
1-10-4: CAPITALIZATION POLICY:
For the purposes of the governmental accounting standards board statement 34,
the following capitalization policy is established:
   A.   The minimum capitalization amount for individual equipment is three
thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00); for buildings and improvements is
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00); and for infrastructure assets (roads,
bridges, culverts, curbs, sidewalks, lighting systems, gutters, drainage
systems and water and sewer lines) is fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
   B.   The cost for maintenance will be expensed.
   C.   The cost for infrastructure will be capitalized and depreciated on a
prospective basis beginning in fiscal year 2005.
   D.   The following depreciation methods are established:
Appliances                                 5 years, straight line
Buildings                                  40 years, straight line
Equipment                                  7 years, straight line
New infrastructure                         40 years, straight line
Other improvements                         20 years, straight line
Road improvements                          10 years, straight line
Tools                                      5 years, straight line
Vehicles over 13,000 gross vehicle weight  7 years, straight line
Vehicles under 13,000 gross vehicle weight 5 years, straight line
 
(Ord. 2005-12, 12-13-2005)
1-10-5: ATTORNEY FEES:
If the city proceeds in any court of record to enforce and/or defend any
provisions of this code, as from time to time amended, and is successful in
either the enforcement or defense proceedings as referred to herein, the city
shall recover its reasonable attorney fees and all costs incurred in the course
of those proceedings from the person and/or entity who has been found to have
violated this code and/or who has initiated the proceedings. (Ord. 2006-12, 4-
10-2007)
CHAPTER 11
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Adoption Of Act
1-11-2: Regulations
1-11-1: ADOPTION OF ACT:
The state officials and employees ethics act is hereby adopted as required by
the act. (Ord. 2004-2, 5-11-2004)
1-11-2: REGULATIONS:
   A.   The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section) are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the city of
Nauvoo, Illinois, to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the city of Nauvoo,
Illinois, is hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city of Nauvoo under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the city of Nauvoo, Illinois, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city of Nauvoo, Illinois,
officers and employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or
policies are less restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of
this section shall prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city of Nauvoo, Illinois.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city of Nauvoo, Illinois, if the act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city of
Nauvoo, Illinois. (Ord. 2004-2, 5-11-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 10-40.
CHAPTER 12
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Title
1-12-2: Scope
1-12-3: Definitions
1-12-4: Notices
1-12-5: Late Payment
1-12-6: Payment
1-12-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-12-8: Audit Procedures
1-12-9: Appeal
1-12-10: Hearing
1-12-11: Interest And Penalties
1-12-12: Abatement
1-12-13: Installment Contracts
1-12-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-12-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-12-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-12-17: Liens Filed For Unpaid Taxes
1-12-18: Application
1-12-19: Severability
1-12-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
CITY: The city of Nauvoo, Illinois, an Illinois municipal corporation.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city's mayor and city council.
HEARING OFFICER: An administrative individual appointed by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the city council to conduct hearings and to issue final
determinations regarding the collection of all locally imposed and administered
taxes.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city's mayor is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this chapter
to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of the
state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be two
(2) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt of the local tax administration
of any claim for a refund of credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-8: AUDIT PROCEDURES:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-12-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal. The taxpayer may request that a hearing officer conduct
the hearing rather than the local tax administrator.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator/hearing officer shall
preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax
determination, audit or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply. At the hearing the local tax
administrator/hearing officer shall preside.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator/hearing
officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with
a copy of the written decision. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, of not to exceed five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be
shown as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five
percent (5%) of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the
time or manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 2000-10,
3-13-2001)
1-12-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-
2001)
1-12-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-17: LIENS FILED FOR UNPAID TAXES:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling.
(Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
1-12-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-10, 3-13-2001)
CHAPTER 13
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
SECTION:
1-13-1: FOIA Officer
1-13-2: Request For A Public Record
1-13-3: Electronic Training Curriculum
1-13-4: Retrieval Of Records
1-13-5: Copies Of Records; Fee
1-13-6: Appeal Of Denial
1-13-7: Exhibits
1-13-1: FOIA OFFICER:
The city clerk is hereby designated as the FOIA officer to whom all initial
requests for access to the records of the city are to be referred. Such
requests are to be made at city hall between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., Monday through Friday. In the event that the
city clerk is not available during the times described above, the city
treasurer is designated as the deputy FOIA officer to whom such initial
requests are to be made. Except in instances when records are furnished
immediately, the FOIA officer, or her designee, shall receive requests
submitted to the city under the freedom of information act, shall comply with
all time deadlines imposed by the act (currently 5 business days after receipt
of the request), and shall respond to those requests as required by the act.
The FOIA officer also shall develop a list of documents or categories of
records that the city shall immediately disclose upon request. (Ord. 2009-6, 5-
11-2010)
1-13-2: REQUEST FOR A PUBLIC RECORD:
All record requests shall be made in writing. Upon receiving a written request
for a public record, the FOIA officer shall:
   A.   Note the date the city receives the written request;
   B.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and make a
notation of that date on the written request;
   C.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until the request has been complied
with or denied; and
   D.   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of the
response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy of
other communications. (Ord. 2009-6, 5-11-2010)
1-13-3: ELECTRONIC TRAINING CURRICULUM:
The FOIA officer and deputy FOIA officer shall, within six (6) months after
January 1, 2010, successfully complete an electronic training curriculum to be
developed by the public access counselor of the state of Illinois and
thereafter successfully complete an annual training program. Whenever a new
freedom of information act officer is designated by the city, that person shall
successfully complete the electronic training curriculum within thirty (30)
days after assuming the position. (Ord. 2009-6, 5-11-2010)
1-13-4: RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS:
Any records which are the subject of a request under the freedom of information
act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the FOIA officer,
or by an employee of the city acting under the direction of the FOIA officer.
In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting them or by any
person who is not employed by the city. (Ord. 2009-6, 5-11-2010)
1-13-5: COPIES OF RECORDS; FEE:
If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies, whether certified
or not, shall be as determined from time to time by the FOIA officer pursuant
to section 6(b) of the freedom of information act. The city clerk shall
maintain a written schedule of current fees in the clerk's office. The fees so
charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying the records, and the cost of
certifying copies, if certification is requested. (Ord. 2009-6, 5-11-2010)
1-13-6: APPEAL OF DENIAL:
In the event that a request to inspect city records is denied by the FOIA
officer, the denial may be appealed to the public access counselor of the state
of Illinois. (Ord. 2009-6, 5-11-2010)
1-13-7: EXHIBITS:
The city clerk shall prepare: a) a city information directory; b) a block
diagram of the functional subdivisions of the city; c) a city records
directory; and d) a records catalog, all of which shall be substantially in the
same form as the documents attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a
part hereof as exhibits A, B, C, and D. This information shall also be posted
on the city's website. (Ord. 2009-6, 5-11-2010)
CHAPTER 14
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
1-14-1: Authorization And Purpose
1-14-2: Subject Matter Jurisdiction
1-14-3: Administrative Hearings Office; Supervisor
1-14-4: Administrative Hearing Officer; Appointment And Qualifications; Scope
Of Authority
1-14-5: Administrative Hearings; General Rules
1-14-6: Representation At Hearings
1-14-7: Commencement Procedure; Notice; Hearing
1-14-8: Default; Procedure For Vacating Default Judgment
1-14-9: Payment Of Ordered Fines And Costs
1-14-10: Enforcement Of Orders
1-14-11: Prepayment Of Certain Offenses In Lieu Of Appearance
1-14-12: Severability
1-14-1: AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of System And Of Hearing Officer: The City of Nauvoo
("the City") hereby provides for a system of administrative adjudication of
Municipal Code violations to the extent permitted by the Illinois Constitution
and as expressly authorized by the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the administrative adjudication system is to
provide a procedure by which violations of Code violations and other offenses
may be equitably and efficiently adjudicated by an Administrative Hearing
Officer.
   C.   Non-Exclusive System: The adoption of an administrative adjudication
system does not preclude the City from using other lawful methods to enforce
violations of the law, such as by filing suit in the Circuit Court. (Ord. 2016-
3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-2: SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION:
The matters subject to administrative adjudication are charges of any violation
of the City's municipal ordinances and of any offense under the Illinois
Criminal Code which may be filed as a Municipal Code violation, so long as the
relief sought is not a penalty of incarceration or a total fine in excess of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) (excluding allowable costs). The monetary
limitation shall not apply to cases brought to enforce collection of any tax
imposed and collected by the City.
It shall exclude the following: proceedings not within the statutory or the
home rule authority of municipalities; any offense under the Illinois Vehicle
Code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement
of vehicles, unless it is permitted to be adjudicated administratively; and any
reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord.
2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-3: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS OFFICE; SUPERVISOR:
An Office of Administrative Hearings is hereby established. The City's Chief of
Police shall be the Administrative Hearings Supervisor. The Supervisor's
function is to expedite the prosecution and/or correction of Code violations
subject to the jurisdiction of the administrative adjudication system and of
State law offenses not excluded in sections 1-14-1 and 1-14-2 of this chapter.
The Supervisor is authorized to manage the administrative adjudication process
in the manner provided for in this chapter, which shall include reviewing the
qualifications of potential Administrative Hearing Officers and establishing
such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the effective operation of
the administrative adjudication system. The Supervisor also shall act as the
Traffic Compliance Administrator and perform those duties required by State law
1 , regarding violations for the standing, parking or condition of motor
vehicles. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-14-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3, as amended.
1-14-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER; APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS; SCOPE
OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   Appointment: The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, shall appoint a Hearing Officer to preside over all administrative
adjudication hearings.
   B.   Qualifications: The Hearing Officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the State of Illinois for at least three (3) years. In
addition, and before conducting any administrative adjudication proceedings,
the Hearing Officer must have successfully completed a formal training program
which includes the following:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which they will conduct;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the Code violations that they
will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   C.   Scope Of Authority: A Hearing Officer shall adhere to the policies and
procedures set forth in this chapter, shall preside over administrative
adjudication hearings, and shall perform all acts necessary to conduct fair and
impartial adjudicatory hearings, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Issuing subpoenas, upon the request of a party of its
representative, which direct witnesses to appear and give relevant testimony at
the hearing;
      2.   Administering oaths, hearing testimony, asking questions of the
parties and witnesses to ensure clarity and completeness of the testimony and
the record, and accepting evidence that is relevant to the existence of the
Code violation;
      3.   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      4.   Issuing a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether a Code violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall include a written finding of facts, the decision, and an
order including the fine, penalty, or action with which the defendant must
comply;
      5.   Upon finding a party liable for a charged violation, performing one
(1) or more of the following acts:
         a.   Imposing fines or penalties and assessing costs as provided by
the governing penalty provision, except that in no event shall the Hearing
Officer have authority to impose a penalty of incarceration or impose a fine in
excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) (excluding allowable costs). When
applicable, each day that a Code provision has been found to have been violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
         b.   In addition to fines, imposing administrative and/or enforcement
costs and, when applicable, imposing costs incurred by the City for effecting
compliance with the Code provision(s) for which the party has been found
liable.
         c.   Ordering the party to comply with the Code provision(s) found to
have been violated.
         d.   Ordering the party to perform a community service.
         e.   Waiving a fine and/or costs if the Hearing Officer specifically
finds, as a matter of fact, that there was a reasonable excuse for the
violation. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-5: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS; GENERAL RULES:
   A.   All administrative hearings are open to the public and shall be
presided over by a duly appointed Administrative Hearing Officer who is charged
with providing the parties a full and fair opportunity to be heard.
   B.   The City shall not be represented by a representative of the Office of
Administrative Hearings. However, documentary evidence that was prepared by
another City department or by some other employee or representative of the City
and submitted to the Administrative Hearing Officer may be presented at the
hearing by the Administrative Hearing Supervisor.
   C.   The Hearing Officer may issue subpoenas.
   D.   All administrative hearings shall be conducted on the date set for
hearing. In rare instances, and for good cause shown, a continuance may be
granted at the discretion of the Administrative Hearing Officer. The purpose of
administrative hearings is to provide a prompt resolution of alleged
violations. Accordingly, the request for, and the granting of, continuances
shall be curtailed to the extent fairness permits. Lack of preparation shall
not be grounds for a continuance.
   E.   The formal and technical rules of evidence may be waived. Evidence,
including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon
by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   F.   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall permit a party to contest the
merits of an alleged vehicular violation that is subject to the administrative
adjudication procedure without attending a hearing. Any person who wishes to
contest a vehicular violation may file a notarized statement of facts which
specify the grounds for contesting the violation notice, and the statement must
be filed with the Office of Administrative Hearings, postmarked within ten (10)
days of the issuance of the violation notice. The request shall be deemed
timely filed if postmarked by that due date. The submission of a notarized
statement of facts constitutes a waiver of that party's right to a personal
appearance, and the Administrative Hearing Officer will make his/her decision
based upon the notarized statement of facts submitted by the party and the
facts contained in the violation notice.
   G.   The standard of proof required to establish a violation is a
preponderance of the evidence. The original charging document, or a legible
copy of it, which was issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified
in the charging document.
   H.   The Administrative Hearings Supervisor shall determine the manner in
which the record shall be preserved. It may be preserved by tape recording or
by other appropriate means. Recording of the hearing by any member of the
public is prohibited unless expressly authorized by the Administrative Hearings
Supervisor. The record of all hearings conducted before an Administrative
Hearing Officer shall include a copy of the findings, decisions, and order of
the Hearing Officer's final determination.
   I.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer
shall issue his/her final determination. If the Hearing Officer issues a final
determination of liability, he/she may impose fines, assess costs, and make
orders as provided in this chapter and which are consistent with the specific
laws found to have been violated.
   J.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer
shall inform the parties orally and in writing of his/her determination. Such
determination shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review and is subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Act.
Based on the charging document and the evidence admitted, the Administrative
Hearing Officer may issue the following determinations: liable, not liable, or
liable upon a plea of no contest. The Hearing Officer also may dismiss the case
with or without prejudice or grant a properly made motion by the City to
voluntarily dismiss the case. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-6: REPRESENTATION AT HEARINGS:
The case for the City may be presented by a City employee or by an attorney
designated by the Mayor, but not by a representative of the Office of
Administrative Hearings, except as allowed in this chapter. The case for the
alleged violator may be presented by alleged violator or by his/her attorney or
agent. An attorney or agent who appears at a hearing on behalf of an alleged
violator shall present the Administrative Hearing Officer with a signed
appearance form which states, on oath or affirmation, that he or she has been
authorized by the alleged violator to represent him/her at the hearing. (Ord.
2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-7: COMMENCEMENT PROCEDURE; NOTICE; HEARING:
All matters to be adjudicated by an Administrative Hearing Officer shall be
commenced by issuing a charging document and serving it upon the party alleged
to have violated the law, and they shall be conducted according to the
following procedures:
   A.   The charging document shall be issued by a City officer, employee, or
agent who is authorized to exercise Code enforcement authority, and it shall be
served as required below.
   B.   The charging document shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name, City position, and identification number (if any) of the
person issuing the charging document;
      2.   The name and address of the person or entity charged with the
violation(s);
      3.   The name and address of the person to whom the charging document is
given, if that person is not the alleged violator;
      4.   The law(s) alleged to have been violated;
      5.   The date, time, and place of the alleged violation(s);
      6.   A legally sufficient description of the activity or conduct alleged
to constitute a violation of each law set forth in the charging document or a
legally sufficient statement of facts giving rise to the allegations set forth
in the charging document;
      7.   The complainant's name, if the complainant is not the person issuing
the charging document;
      8.   The signature of the person issuing the charging document, which
shall serve to certify the correctness of the information contained in the
charging document and shall establish a prima facie case; and
      9.   The date, time, and place of the adjudicatory hearing and the legal
authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing will be held.
   C.   The hearing shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided
that for hearings scheduled in all non-emergency situations, the alleged
violator shall have at least fifteen (15) days after service of process to
prepare for a hearing, if such time is requested by the alleged violator. For
purposes of this subsection, a "non-emergency situation" means any situation
that does not reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest, safety, or
welfare.
   D.   The alleged violator named in a charging document shall be given notice
of the date of the hearing, which may appear on the face of the charging
document (such as a notice of violation or citation). Notice may be given in
any of the following ways: 1) by first class mail, by overnight mail, or by
two-day delivery service at the alleged violator's last known address or, if
the violator is a business entity, at any address identified for its registered
agent or at its principal place of business; or 2) by personal service; or 3)
by posting upon the property that is the site of the alleged violation, when
the alleged violator is the owner or person in control of the property; or 4)
by any other means permitted by law for service of civil summons.
   E.   The parties to an adjudicatory hearing may be represented by an
attorney, present witnesses, and cross-examine opposing witnesses. They may
request the Administrative Hearing Officer to issue subpoenas according to the
authority granted in this chapter. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-8: DEFAULT; PROCEDURE FOR VACATING DEFAULT JUDGMENT:
   A.   If, at the time set for hearing, the alleged violator (or his/her
attorney or agent of record) fails to appear, the Administrative Hearing
Officer may enter an order of default judgment against that party, determining
liability and imposing fines and costs as allowed in this chapter. A copy of
the order shall be served upon the party in any manner permitted by this
chapter and applicable to the violation. The order shall include information on
the procedure for setting aside the default judgment and for appealing the
default judgment to the Circuit Court of Hancock County. The order shall be
mailed promptly to the party. The default judgment constitutes a final
determination for purposes of judicial review and is subject to review under
the Illinois Administrative Review Act.
   B.   A party against whom a default judgment has been entered may file a
motion with the Office of Administrative Hearings to set aside the default
judgment and request a new hearing. If that motion alleges lack of subject
matter or personal jurisdiction as a basis for vacating the default judgment,
that motion may be filed at any time. For all other reasons, the motion must be
filed within twenty one (21) days of entry of the default judgment. The motion
to set aside the default judgment shall set forth the reasons why the party
failed to appear on the original hearing date. The Administrative Hearing
Officer shall hear and rule on the motion. If the officer grants the motion, a
hearing will be held immediately on the violation(s) alleged in the charging
document unless the party requests another hearing date and presents good cause
for continuing the hearing. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-9: PAYMENT OF ORDERED FINES AND COSTS:
Payment of all fines and other costs must be made within ten (10) calendar days
of entry of the final determination, unless another payment arrangement is
entered into with the City. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-10: ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS:
   A.   Any fine, and any administrative, enforcement, or compliance costs
imposed by a Hearing Officer's order which remain unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures (unless stayed by a
court of competent jurisdiction) shall constitute a debt due and owing the City
and may be collected as allowed by law.
   B.   After expiration of the period in which judicial review may be sought,
and unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the determination of
liability of an Administrative Hearing Officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a party has failed to comply with an order to
correct a Code violation, any expenses incurred by the City to enforce the
Administrative Hearing Officer's order, including, but not limited to, attorney
fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
shall be a debt owed by the party to the City.
   D.   Prior to any expenses being fixed by a Hearing Officer pursuant to this
subsection, the City shall provide notice to that party, directing him/her to
appear at a hearing before an Administrative Hearing Officer to determine
whether the party has failed to comply with the Hearing Officer's order. The
notice shall set the place and time for the hearing, which shall not be less
than seven (7) days from the date the notice is served. Notice may be served by
personal service, by first class mail, or by an overnight or two-day delivery
service, and the 7-day period shall begin to run on the date that the notice
was personally served, deposited in the mail, or placed with the overnight or
delivery service.
   E.   The City may enforce, or seek to enforce, any order of an
Administrative Hearing Officer in any manner allowed by law for enforcements of
orders. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-11: PREPAYMENT OF CERTAIN OFFENSES IN LIEU OF APPEARANCE:
   A.   Violators who are charged under this chapter with the offenses listed
in this section shall be eligible for prepaying a fine (in the amounts listed
below) in lieu of appearing at an adjudicatory hearing:
Violations relating to buildings, zoning,
property maintenance, and abandoned or
inoperable vehicles - in which the        $200.00
violation has been removed to the City's
satisfaction within 10 days of issuance
of the charging document
Retail theft violations with a value of   150.00
items stolen under $50.00
Retail theft violations with a value of   250.00
items stolen between $50.00 and $100.00
Curfew violations                         75.00
Soliciting without a permit               150.00
Open burning violations                   100.00
Animal-related violations                 100.00
Violations relating to the operation of   100.00
motor vehicles
Violations of the noise ordinance         75.00
Violations relating to the possession or  75.00
use of tobacco products
Littering violations                      75.00
Handicapped-parking violations            The statutorily required minimum fine
Snow route parking violations             $75.00
All other parking violations not listed   75.00
above
 
   B.   The Chief of Police or his/her designee is authorized to establish the
procedure for exercising the prepaying option under this section. Those
procedures shall be stated on the charging document issued under this chapter.
   C.   The prepayment of a fine shall constitute an admission of guilt by the
person charged with the offense.
   D.   A person who is charged with an offense that is not listed above is
required to appear at an adjudicatory hearing.
   E.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) shall not be eligible for the
prepayment option unless prepayment is agreed to, in a writing signed by his/
her parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 2016-3, 2-14-2017)
1-14-12: SEVERABILITY:
Should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that one (1) or more
sections or subsections of this chapter is, or are, invalid, the remaining
sections or subsections hereof shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord.
2016-3, 2-14-2017)
CHAPTER 15
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
1-15-1: Declaration Of Policy
1-15-2: Definitions
1-15-3: Prohibited Acts
1-15-4: Penalty
1-15-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the City may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the City of Nauvoo, to assure equal opportunity
to all residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent, sanitary,
healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the City of Nauvoo that no owner, lessee,
sublessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation
having the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing
accommodation and/or real property within the City, or any agent of these shall
refuse to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person
or group of persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
of such person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because
of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability
in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities
and/or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply, lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 2014-02,
5-13-2014)
1-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meaning as described in this section and as used in this
chapter:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable Local,
State, and National Codes.
DISCRIMINATE: The terms "discriminate" or "discrimination" mean any difference
expressed in any way toward a person or persons in the terms of the sale,
exchange, lease, rental or financing for housing accommodation and/or real
property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence or sleeping place of one (1) or more human beings, or any real
estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the City of Nauvoo, Illinois.
(Ord. 2014-02, 5-13-2014)
1-15-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub- lessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the City of Nauvoo, Illinois:
   A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the price,
terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale, rental,
lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the City
or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or disability of any person.
   C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   D.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
   F.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
   G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant. (Ord. 2014-02, 5-13-2014)
1-15-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way
abrogate or impair the right of the City of Nauvoo to specifically enforce, by
any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-02, 5-13-
2014)
CHAPTER 16
PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
SECTION:
1-16-1: Purpose
1-16-2: Definitions
1-16-3: Application Procedure
1-16-4: Administrative Composition
1-16-5: Administrative Hearing
1-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method for
determining the eligibility of a full-time employee for the benefits enumerated
under PSEBA through an administrative process, including, if necessary, an
administrative hearing. (Ord. 2017-13, 1-9-2018)
1-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms will have the following
meanings. These definitions are derived from the Federal Public Health and
Welfare Act, which was enacted in 1944 and amended in 1984 to define, by
inclusion or reference, the following terms.
CATASTROPHIC INJURY: An injury, the direct and proximate consequences of which
permanently prevent an individual from performing any gainful work.
GAINFUL WORK: Full- or part-time activity that actually is compensated or
commonly is compensated.
INJURY: A traumatic physical wound (or a traumatized physical condition of the
body) directly and proximately caused by external force (such as bullets,
explosives, sharp instruments, blunt objects, or physical blows), chemicals,
electricity, climatic conditions, infectious disease, radiation, virii, or
bacteria, but does not include:
   A.   Any occupational disease; or
   B.   Any condition of the body caused or occasioned by stress or strain.
(Ord. 2017-13, 1-9-2018)
1-16-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
As noted by the Court in Pedersen, "the Act, however, does not provide any
guidance on the proper procedure for seeking [PSEBA] benefits". This chapter
and the application procedure of this section establishes guidance on the
proper procedure for public safety officers seeking PSEBA benefits in the City.
   A.   Public safety officers, or family member(s) of an injured or deceased
public safety officer, ("applicant") must file a full and complete PSEBA
application in writing within thirty (30) days of filing a pension claim with
the City or within thirty (30) days of the date of the adoption of this chapter
in the event that an applicant has filed for a PSEBA claim prior to the date of
adoption of this chapter, whichever is later, if the applicant is seeking
benefits under PSEBA. The City shall notify applicant if the PSEBA application
is incomplete and applicant shall have five (5) days to remedy their
application. Failure to timely file the full and complete application shall
result in a forfeiture of the benefits under PSEBA by failure to properly
submit a complete application.
   B.   A complete PSEBA application includes the following:
      1.   The name of the applicant, date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident, including information relating to how the injury was
sustained in the line of duty (date, time, place, nature of injury, and other
factual circumstances surrounding the incident giving rise to said claim);
      2.   The applicant's firsthand knowledge explaining, to the City's
satisfaction, how the injury/death directly resulted from:
         a.   Response to fresh pursuit;
         b.   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency;
         c.   An unlawful act perpetrated by another; or
         d.   Participation during the investigation of a criminal act;
      3.   A signed PSEBA medical authorization release which authorizes the
collection of information related to the incident including, but not limited
to, disability pension proceedings, worker's compensation records, and medical
records and specifies the name and address for pertinent health care provider
(s);
      4.   A signed PSEBA general information release specifying the name and
signature of the applicant or her/his authorized representative along with
legal proof of said representation and name and signature of witness
authorizing the collection of information pertinent to the incident review
process;
      5.   The name(s) of witnesses to the incident;
      6.   The name(s) of witnesses the applicant intends to call at the PSEBA
hearing;
      7.   Information and supporting pension documentation filed with the
appropriate Pension Board;
      8.   Information supporting the PSEBA eligibility requirements; and
      9.   Other sources of health insurance benefits currently enrolled in or
received by the applicant and/or family members if the applicant is deceased.
   C.   The PSEBA application must be submitted to the City Clerk in its
entirety.
   D.   The PSEBA application must be sworn and notarized to certify the
truthfulness of the content of the information. A review of the application
shall not occur until the application is complete.
   E.   On the date that the PSEBA application is deemed complete by the City,
the completed application shall then be submitted to the City as the
preliminary record, and a copy of the same shall be date stamped and provided
to the applicant.
   F.   Upon receipt of a complete application for PSEBA benefits, the City
shall set the matter for an administrative hearing before a Hearing Officer to
make a determination on whether to grant the applicant PSEBA benefits based on
the result of the administrative hearing.
   G.   The applicant will be given written notice of the date for the
scheduled administrative hearing to be served not less than ten (10) days prior
to the commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon receiving written
notice of the administrative hearing, cannot attend said date, the applicant
must contact the Hearing Officer in writing within seven (7) days after being
served. The Hearing Officer shall establish an alternative hearing date which
is within thirty (30) days of the original hearing date. Failure to appear at
the administrative hearing shall result in denial of PSEBA benefits. (Ord.
2017-13, 1-9-2018)
1-16-4: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The administrative hearing shall be scheduled and conducted by a Hearing
Officer whose authority and limitations are as follows:
   A.   Authority Of The Hearing Officer: The Hearing Officer shall have all of
the authority granted to her/him under common law relative to the conduct of an
administrative hearing, including the authority to:
      1.   Preside over City hearings involving PSEBA;
      2.   Administer oaths;
      3.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the issue of
eligibility under PSEBA;
      4.   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the production
of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      5.   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence;
      6.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      7.   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the determination of which shall be in writing and shall include a
written finding of fact, decision and order.
   B.   Hearing Officer: The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold the position of
Hearing Officer for each hearing on PSEBA benefits that shall come before this
City. In making said selection, the following information should be considered,
at a minimum:
      1.   The individual's ability to comply with the job description as set
forth herein; and
      2.   The individual must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois and have knowledge of and experience in employment and labor
law, general civil procedure, the rules of evidence, and administrative
practice. (Ord. 2017-13, 1-9-2018)
1-16-5: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
The system of administrative hearings for the determination of eligibility for
benefits under PSEBA shall be initiated either by the City or by the applicant
after the submission of a full and complete PSEBA application. An
administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine whether the
applicant is eligible for benefits under PSEBA. If the applicant is found
eligible, the benefits shall be consistent with the Act.
   A.   Record: The City shall ensure that all hearings are attended by a
certified court reporter and a transcript of all proceedings shall be made by
said certified court reporter and a copy be provided to the applicant within
twenty eight (28) days of the date of the administrative hearing. (If a
certified court reporter is not available, then the proceedings shall be
recorded, and a verbatim record shall be prepared by the City Clerk or by some
other person designated by the Corporate Authorities.)
   B.   Procedures: The City and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at said administrative hearing and present witnesses,
testimony and documents, may cross-examine opposing witnesses, and may request
the issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant witnesses or the
production of relevant documents.
   C.   Evidence: The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the extent
practicable unless, by such application, the Hearing Officer determines that
application of the rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction of
evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in the
conduct of her or his affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole
discretion of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer must state on the record
her or his reason for that determination.
   D.   Final Determination: A written determination by the Hearing Officer of
whether the petitioning applicant is eligible for the benefits under PSEBA
shall constitute a final administrative determination for the purpose of
judicial review under the common law writ of certiorari.
   E.   Burden Of Proof: At any administrative hearing, the applicant shall
have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant is
eligible and qualified to receive PSEBA benefits. The standard of proof in all
hearings conducted under this chapter shall be by the preponderance of the
evidence.
   F.   Administrative Records: All records pertaining to the administrative
process shall be held in a separate file under the applicant's name with the
City. (Ord. 2017-13, 1-9-2018)
CHAPTER 17
SEXUAL HARASSMENT 1 , 2
SECTION:
1-17-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-17-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-17-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-17-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-17-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-17-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
 
Notes
  1. This policy was created from the policy initially adopted by the City of
  Nauvoo on February 13, 2001, and from a model policy developed in 2017 by the
  Illinois Municipal League (IML), both of which borrowed provisions from the
1 Illinois Department of Human Rights Sexual Harassment Model Policy. Both the
  City policy and the IML model policy conform to Public Act 100-0554, which
  took effect on November 16, 2017. Due to the subsequent enactment of Public
  Act 100-1066, this policy has been updated to reflect the new deadline to
  file a complaint with the IDHR.
2 2. The provisions of this policy will apply only insofar as they do not
  conflict with any State or Federal law.
1-17-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991.
All persons have a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment is unacceptable conduct which affects individuals of all
genders and sexual orientations.
It is a policy of the City of Nauvoo to prohibit harassment of any person by
any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency
or office on the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal officials, Municipal
agents, Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or offices are prohibited
from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship
or lack thereof. (Res. 2018-4, 11-13-2018)
1-17-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as: Any
unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made, either explicitly or implicitly,
a term or condition of an individual's employment;
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment.
One such example is where an individual is terminated by a supervisor or is
denied employment opportunities and benefits after rejecting the supervisor's
sexual advances or request(s) for sexual favors. Another example is where an
individual is subjected to conduct by coworkers because of his or her gender
which makes it difficult for the employee to perform his or her job.
   B.   Other conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos; suggestive comments; insults; humor or
jokes about sex or anatomy or gender-specific traits; sexual propositions;
threats; repeated requests for dates; or statements about other employees -
even outside their presence - of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking",
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters; signs; pin-ups; slogans of a sexual nature; or
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching; unwelcome hugging or kissing; pinching; brushing
the body; any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber-stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
While the most commonly recognized forms of sexual harassment involve the types
of conduct described above, non-sexual conduct can also constitute a violation
of the applicable laws when that conduct is directed at the victim because of
his or her gender (such as when a female employee who reports to work every day
finds her tools stolen, her work station filled with trash, and her equipment
disabled by her male co-workers because they resent having to work with a
woman).
   C.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person".
For this reason, every supervisor and employee must remember that seemingly
"harmless" and subtle actions may lead to sexual harassment complaints. The use
of terms such as "honey", "darling" and "sweetheart" is objectionable to many
women who believe that these terms undermine their authority and their ability
to deal with men on an equal and professional level. And while use of these
terms by an individual with authority over a female employee will rarely
constitute an adverse employment action, it may lead to the creation of a
hostile work environment.
Another example is the use of a compliment that could potentially be
interpreted as sexual in nature. Below are statements that might be made about
the appearance of a woman in the workplace:
      1.   "That's an attractive dress you have on."
      2.   "That's an attractive dress. It really looks good on you."
      3.   "That's an attractive dress. You really fill it out well."
The first statement appears to be simply a compliment. The last is most likely
to be perceived as sexual harassment, depending on individual perceptions and
values. To avoid the possibility of offending an employee, it is best to follow
a course of conduct above reproach, or to err on the side of caution.
   D.   Sexual harassment will often involve a man's conduct directed at a
woman. However, it can also involve a woman harassing a man or harassment
between members of the same gender.
The harassing employee will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including discharge, in accordance with City or departmental policy or the
terms of a collective bargaining agreement, as appropriate. (Res. 2018-4, 11-
13-2018)
1-17-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/himself
to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as
directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee and to her/his supervisor. It is not necessary for the
sexual harassment to be directed at the person who makes the report.
All charges, including anonymous complaints, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the employer. However,
because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and the
difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the complainant's willing cooperation is a vital
component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   A.   Proper methods of reporting conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment may include:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexually harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the City. If the harasser is
the immediate supervisor, the misconduct should be reported to the next level
of supervision.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the misconduct. If there are no
witnesses, and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible
officer, it is likely the employer will be presumed not to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough, and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, a Municipal employee has the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) about filing a formal complaint with those entities. An IDHR
complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days of the alleged incident
(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must be filed
within three hundred (300) days.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the Municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Res. 2018-4, 11-13-2018)
1-17-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal
agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal
employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy;
      2.   Provision of information related to or testimony before any public
body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of this
policy; or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a report made
in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will be protected
from retaliation.
   B.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection
from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee; or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate against an
employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative hearing, or
before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where
the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an
employer may not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a
government or law enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or Federal
law, rule, or regulation 3 .
According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights violation
for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate against a
person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in good
faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has made a
charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed over
for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - either due within three hundred (300) days of the alleged
retaliation. (Res. 2018-4, 11-13-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 1. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 3. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-17-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Res. 2018-4, 11-13-2018)
1-17-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements. (Res. 2018-4, 11-13-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Board Of Health   1
Hotel-Motel Tax Board   2
Municipal Defense Council   3
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF HEALTH
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Appointed
2-1-1: BOARD APPOINTED:
The mayor may, with the concurrence of the city council at the regular May
meeting of each and every year, appoint three (3) persons to act as the board
of health of the city. (Ord. XVI, Art. I, 9-18-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
HOTEL-MOTEL TAX BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Membership; Terms Of Office
2-2-3: Organization
2-2-4: Authority; Duties
2-2-5: Budget Process
2-2-6: Payment Of Bills
2-2-7: Compliance With State Law
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
The City of Nauvoo must expend the Hotel-Motel Use Taxes it collects solely to
promote tourism and conventions within the Municipality or otherwise to attract
nonresident overnight visitors to the Municipality, but it cannot expend them
to advertise for, or otherwise promote, new competition in the hotel business.
The City Council hereby establishes a Hotel-Motel Tax Board to assist it with
promoting tourism, attracting overnight stays, and determining the best use and
expenditure of the Hotel- Motel Taxes. (Ord. 2017-7, 8-8-2017)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
Membership in the Hotel-Motel Tax Board shall consist of seven (7) citizens of
the City, including two (2) City Council members. The remaining members should
be made up of one representing bed and breakfasts, two (2) from the hotel-motel
industry, one from the food service industry and one from a retail
establishment. The City Council may waive the industry requirements if
qualified members cannot be found. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor.
Members will serve terms consisting of two (2) years. The terms of each of the
seven (7) appointed board members shall be staggered such that three (3) or
four (4) board members will be replaced each year. The method for staggering
the terms of said board members shall initially be determined by authorizing
the Mayor to ask each of the seven (7) initially appointed board members to
draw lots such that the initially appointed board members shall have a term of
one or two (2) years. After the initially appointed board members have
completed their terms, all successive board members shall have a term of two
(2) years.
The Mayor of the City shall not appoint any member of the Hotel- Motel Tax
Board for more than three (3) consecutive terms; however, nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit a former member of the Hotel-Motel Tax Board from being
reappointed after the expiration of two (2) years from the date said member
last served on the board. The City Council may waive the consecutive term and
the two (2) year reappointment restrictions if qualified members cannot be
identified. The Mayor shall appoint a new member to serve any unexpired term.
(Ord. 2004-16, 3-24-2005)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: The Hotel-Motel Tax Board shall annually elect a President
and Secretary or other such officers as the board deems fit and appropriate for
the proper execution of the board's duties.
   B.   Meetings: Notice shall be given to the public by appropriate method, as
to the meeting place and the meeting time of said Hotel-Motel Tax Board. The
board shall conduct meetings as are deemed necessary by the board at reasonable
times and places and at all of said meetings there will be minutes taken.
Compliance with the Open Meetings Act is required.
   C.   Quorum: No meeting of the Hotel-Motel Tax Board shall occur without a
quorum of four (4) members present at any meeting of the board. (Ord. 2004-16,
3-24-2005)
2-2-4: AUTHORITY; DUTIES:
The Hotel-Motel Tax Board shall have the following authority and duties:
   A.   To recommend to the City Council the use and allocation of the Hotel-
Motel Taxes to promote tourism and conventions or otherwise to attract non-
resident overnight visitors to the City;
   B.   To use allocated funds for that purpose, keeping all expenditures
within budgeted amounts and accounting for all expenditures;
   C.   To review the actual expenditures of the Hotel-Motel Taxes, determine
whether the expenditures have met their required purpose, and submit quarterly
reports on the expenditures to the City Council;
   D.   To recommend to the City Council the hiring or retention of service
providers, including, but not limited to, an event planner or tourism director,
to assist the City in promoting tourism and conventions and in attracting non-
resident overnight visitors to the City;
   E.   To assist with the hiring or retention process, as requested by the
City Council, such as by preparing job descriptions, advertising open
positions, gathering applications, and contacting and interviewing applicants;
   F.   To oversee and evaluate the performance of any retained service
providers by providing monthly evaluation reports to the City Council (on or
about the first of each month), with recommendations for changes or other
action; and
   G.   To exercise any other authority or responsibilities delegated to it and
permitted by law. (Ord. 2017-7, 8-8-2017)
2-2-5: BUDGET PROCESS:
The Hotel-Motel Tax Board shall present to the City Council each year no later
than March 1, an annual budget for review and approval. The format of said
budget will be determined by the City Council. Income and expense amounts will
be included in the appropriation and levy ordinances annually passed by the
City Council for the City. (Ord. 2004-16, 3-24-2005)
2-2-6: PAYMENT OF BILLS:
The Hotel-Motel Tax Board shall present monthly to the City Council's Finance
Committee expenditures, with budget line item indicated, for payment. (Ord.
2004-16, 3-24-2005)
2-2-7: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
The Hotel-Motel Tax Board shall fully comply with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-3-1 et seq., which said statute governs the appropriate use and expenditure
of all funds created by section
4-2-5 of this Code and this chapter. (Ord. 2004-16, 3-24-2005)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL DEFENSE COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: Municipal Defense Council Created; Members
2-3-2: Organization; Committee Appointments
2-3-3: Powers And Duties Of Council
2-3-4: Emergency And Disaster Coordinator
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
2-3-1: MUNICIPAL DEFENSE COUNCIL CREATED; MEMBERS:
There is hereby created the municipal defense council of the city to be
composed of the mayor as chairman and such other persons, not exceeding eleven
(11) in number, as the mayor may appoint from time to time. Each member of the
municipal defense council shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor or until the
repeal of this chapter. (Ord. 270, 1-9-1942; amd. Ord. 1988-2, 7-5-1988)
2-3-2: ORGANIZATION; COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS:
The municipal defense council may expedite procedure by organizing itself into
subcommittees and may subdivide its work and prescribe such rules and
regulations as are not in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. It
shall prescribe the training regulations, and delegate the authority of
preliminary hearings for dismissal of voluntary workers to the heads of
departments.
The municipal defense council may appoint additional committees to meet any
emergency that may arise but shall report same promptly to the city council,
which shall have the authority, at its discretion, to order the discontinuance
of such committee. Any person appointed to any position created under this
chapter may be removed by the appointing authority for any reason deemed by it
to be sufficient. (Ord. 270, 1-9-1942)
2-3-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNCIL:
The municipal defense council shall be charged with the duty of coordinating
all defense activities of the city.
It shall:
   A.   Coordinate the activities of municipal and private agencies cooperating
in the defense program.
   B.   Keep in contact with the office of civilian defense to the end that all
requests and suggestions from that office shall receive prompt and efficient
response.
   C.   Conduct studies regarding defense problems of the city to the end that
the municipal government of the city will at all times be abreast of the
problems of defense, and information desired by federal agencies will be
readily available.
   D.   Survey existing facilities, proffers of facilities, services and ideas
originating within the city and make appropriate disposition of them.
   E.   Act as a clearinghouse on municipal defense information for all
governmental and private agencies cooperating in the defense program.
   F.   Direct information regarding the defense program to all municipal
departments or agencies which are or may be affected thereby.
   G.   Make recommendations, from time to time, for improvements in the
handling of defense problems affecting the city.
   H.   Perform such other advisory functions as may be requested by agencies
or departments of the federal government in connection with the national
defense program.
   I.   Do whatever is necessary and proper to carry out the intent and purpose
of this chapter, tending to protect life and property.
   J.   Have full and plenary powers to employ such persons as may be necessary
to carry out the functions of the council. These persons shall be subject,
however, to all regulations now provided by law governing this municipality.
(Ord. 270, 1-9-1942)
2-3-4: EMERGENCY AND DISASTER COORDINATOR:
   A.   Office Created, Function: There is hereby established the city
emergency and disaster coordinator, whose sole function shall be to report to
the mayor and city council as it relates to emergency and disaster preparedness
activities within the city.
   B.   Appointment: The coordinator shall be appointed by the mayor on an
annual basis, with said coordinator to serve upon the advice and consent of a
majority of the city council members for the city.
   C.   Removal: The coordinator may be removed by the mayor upon the
affirmative majority vote of the council members at a regular meeting of the
city council of the city.
   D.   Compensation: Said coordinator shall not be compensated by the city,
although said city may reimburse the coordinator for such direct out of pocket
expenses as the coordinator, from time to time, deems necessary and proper for
the purpose.
   E.   Funding For Expenditures: An ordinance shall be passed by the city, by
an appropriate appropriation ordinance or otherwise, such that funds that are
available through the extension of real estate taxes or in some other extension
of tax as the city deems fit and proper, shall provide for the annual
expenditure of funds for this chapter.
   F.   Powers And Duties: The coordinator shall:
      1.   Preparedness Outline: From time to time, make, publish and display a
preparedness outline and shall indicate the duties to be performed by various
emergency or disaster relief agencies as it relates to the city.
      2.   Agreements: Enter into such agreements as the coordinator deems
necessary to fully prepare the city for disaster and/or emergency relief.
      3.   Reports To Council: Report to the council members at regular
meetings of the city council; and report to the council as to the level of
preparedness at least annually. He may be called upon by the mayor to make such
additional reports as may, from time to time, be deemed necessary and advisable
by the city council. (Ord. 1988-2, 7-5-1988)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets And Public Ways   1
Trees And Shrubs   2
Public Parks   3
Sewer Use And Service   4
  Rates And Charges      4A
Waterworks System Regulations   5
Combined Water And Sewer Systems   6
Cross Connections   7
Telecommunications Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee   8
Small Wireless Facilities   9
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Control Over Public Ways
3-1-2: Duties And Supervision Of City Officers
3-1-3: Obstructions To Public Ways
3-1-4: Materials On Public Ways
3-1-5: Burning On Public Ways Prohibited
3-1-6: Footpaths And Pedestrianways
3-1-7: Watercourses Maintained, Kept Open
3-1-8: Street Excavations
3-1-9: Street Lighting Fund And Tax
3-1-1: CONTROL OVER PUBLIC WAYS:
The superintendent of streets shall have the same authority and exercise the
same control, under the direction of the chairman of the streets, buildings and
grounds committee, in connection with the streets, lanes, avenues and alleys of
the city as the mayor. (Ord. XXXII, 9-18-1899; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2008-13, 4-
28-2009)
3-1-2: DUTIES AND SUPERVISION OF CITY OFFICERS:
   A.   Prevent Obstructions:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the chairman of the streets, buildings and
grounds committee and the superintendent of streets to prevent all obstructions
of streets, thoroughfares, sidewalks and alleys in the city, and to cause all
obstructions to be removed from any such street, thoroughfare, sidewalk or
alley, and to immediately report the same to the marshal, whose duty it shall
be to immediately notify the person causing or maintaining such obstruction to
remove the same within twenty four (24) hours after such notice is given, and
in case of the failure of such person to remove the same within the time stated
in such notification, the marshal shall proceed to remove the same, and shall
file a complaint against the party maintaining such obstruction. (Ord. XXXII,
9-18-1899; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2008-13, 4-28-2009)
      2.   If any person shall resist the marshal or any other person acting
under his instructions in the removal of any obstructions, such offender shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for every such offense. (Ord. XXXII, 9-18-1899; amd. 1989
Code)
   B.   Repairs: It shall be the duty of the street superintendent, under the
direction of the chairman of the streets, buildings and grounds committee, to
see that the streets, thoroughfares and sidewalks are kept in good repair, and
may for that purpose call the marshal to his assistance, if necessary. (Ord.
XXXII, 9-18-1899; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2008-13, 4-28-2009)
3-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS TO PUBLIC WAYS:
If any person shall hereafter obstruct, fence, dig or in any way interfere with
any of the streets, lanes, alleys or sidewalks of the city, he shall forfeit
and pay to the city a sum of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and every such offense, to be
recovered as other penalties for violation of ordinances of the city are
recovered; and all persons advising or counseling, or in any way aiding or
assisting in obstructing, fencing, plowing or digging said streets, lanes,
alleys or sidewalks, shall be subject to the same penalties as those who may
obstruct, fence, plow, dig or in any way interfere with any of said streets,
lanes, alleys or sidewalks. The city attorney and city marshal are hereby
directed to prosecute any and all persons who shall be guilty of violating this
section; provided, that this section shall not apply to any person acting under
the direction or order of the city council, street superintendent or mayor, or
any person authorized by ordinance of the city to oversee or work said streets,
alleys, lanes or sidewalks. (Ord. XXXI, 9-18-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
3-1-4: MATERIALS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
Any person who shall place or leave, or cause to be placed or left, any
encroachment, obstruction or encumbrance such as, but not limited to, ashes,
debris, garbage, refuse, leaves, grain, dirt/mud, rock, building materials, in
or upon any public right of way, including, but not limited to, street, alley
or sidewalk, in the city, shall be subject to cleanup expenses as set forth
below. It shall be the responsibility of the hauling vehicle owner, property
owner, lessee or renter, or contractor from which the debris originated, to
clean up and remove all material from the public right of way. If the city of
Nauvoo employees are called to clean the public right of way, expenses will be
charged for the city employees' time based upon the then current prevailing
wage rates in effect in the state of Illinois and city of Nauvoo. Any city
equipment that is used, shall be charged at the equipment fee schedule as set
forth by the city. It shall be the responsibility of the hauling vehicle owner,
property owner, lessee or renter, or contractor, from which the debris
originated, to pay all cleanup fees and penalty fees.
The penalty fees shall be as follows:
 
First offense                $  50.00
Second offense               250.00
Third offense and thereafter 500.00
 
(Ord. 2005-15, 5-9-2006)
3-1-5: BURNING ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED:
Whoever shall burn any paper or other rubbish or throw or deposit any paper,
ashes or other rubbish on any street in the city shall be guilty of an offense
and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in a sum of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. XXXI,
9-18-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
3-1-6: FOOTPATHS AND PEDESTRIANWAYS:
   A.   It shall be lawful for any person owning real estate within the city,
himself or by his agent, to place and maintain posts for the protection of
certain parts of streets for footpaths or sidewalks for pedestrians along their
respective premises, by first obtaining permission so to do from the city
council in the following manner:
      1.   Any person wishing to place posts on any public street of the city
for the purpose set forth herein shall make application to the city council for
such permit, said application to give a description of the premises and street
where it is desired to place such posts. The city council shall have the right
to grant or not to grant such permit, at its discretion.
      2.   All posts placed in the city for the purpose herein set forth shall
extend not less than four feet (4') aboveground, shall be painted white or
whitewashed, and shall be seven feet (7') from the line of such premises,
except on Main Street, where they may be ten feet (10') from the line of such
premises. (Ord. XXXIV, 9-22-1899)
   B.   Any person who shall, after the taking effect of this section, maintain
or fail to remove any such post previously erected along his premises, within
ten (10) days after being notified to remove the same by the marshal acting
under order of the city council; and any person who shall hereafter place any
such post on any street in the city in violation of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a nuisance and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. XXXIV, 9-22-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Sidewalks in the city of Nauvoo shall be constructed according to
guidelines for construction of sidewalks as published by the city council. At a
minimum, all sidewalks will be of concrete using a 6-bag mix and shall be four
feet (4') in width or match existing adjacent sidewalk for the purpose of
uniformity and four inches (4") thick. The sidewalk should not be closer than
eight feet (8') to any tree roots or other plant or object that could cause the
sidewalk to become uneven. (Ord. 2004-12, 1-11-2005)
3-1-7: WATERCOURSES MAINTAINED, KEPT OPEN:
   A.   All watercourses within the city limits shall be maintained and kept
open in their original course where the water naturally flows, and any person
changing or altering the course of any watercourse without permission of the
city council shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in a sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   When any watercourse has been heretofore changed, altered or obstructed
by any person so as to deflect the water from its original and natural course,
without the permission of the city council, or when any watercourse shall
hereafter be so changed, altered or obstructed without the permission of the
city council, the marshal of the city shall, when so ordered by the city
council, give the person who has so changed, altered or obstructed such
watercourse, or who may hereafter change, alter or obstruct the same, and also
the person upon whose land the change, alteration or obstruction has been or is
made or placed, ten (10) days' notice to remove the same so as to let the water
flowing through such watercourse flow in its original and natural course, and
upon a failure of such person to remove such obstructions within ten (10) days
after receiving such notice, he shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   C.   When any person has heretofore or shall hereafter place or maintain any
obstruction in any watercourse within the city so as to deflect the water from
its natural course into the streets or alleys of the city and which injures
said streets or cuts or washes the same, the city marshal shall, upon the order
of the city council, notify the person who so placed or who so maintains such
obstruction in such watercourse, to remove the same within ten (10) days from
the service of such notice, and unless it is removed within ten (10) days after
such notice, the person who so placed or so maintains such obstruction in any
such watercourse shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not to exceed twenty five dollars
($25.00) for every day he shall so maintain such obstruction or fails to remove
the same after the expiration of the time given by such notice. (Ord. XXI, 9-
22-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
3-1-8: STREET EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   When it becomes necessary to open a ditch in the streets of the city
for the purpose of installing connections from residences and business places
to sewer main lines, gas main lines, water main lines, and telephone lines, or
any utility, or for the purpose of repairing existing connections, it will
first be necessary to make application with the city clerk, who will then
contact proper personnel.
   B.   If consent is requested to open a ditch to the center of the abutting
street, then the sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00), or such amount as the
city council shall from time to time deem necessary, shall accompany such
application made payable to the city for the purpose of compensating for damage
and repair to any city street.
If consent is requested to open a ditch across the whole of an abutting street,
then the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00), or such amount as the city
council shall from time to time deem necessary, shall accompany such
application made payable to the city, for the purpose of compensating for
damage and repair to any city street.
The foregoing shall not apply to those streets under jurisdiction of the
highway commission, state of Illinois, in which case it will be necessary to
make application to the highway commission of the state of Illinois.
   C.   No connection shall be made to any water or sewer main line of the city
on Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays without prior permission of the water
and sewer superintendent of the city and, after all connections have been made
to the sewer and water main lines of the city, the water and sewer
superintendent shall be notified and he shall inspect the same before the same
are covered.
   D.   No digging permits will be issued to anyone who has not made proper
restitution for any prior digging violation.
   E.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1978-2, 2-6-1978; amd. 1989 Code; 1991)
   F.   No digging permit will be issued to anyone between the date of November
1, to the succeeding date of April 1, without permission given by a majority
vote of the city council at a regularly scheduled council meeting. (1991)
3-1-9: STREET LIGHTING FUND AND TAX:
There shall be a levy against all the taxable property within the city of
Nauvoo, Illinois, a street lighting tax authorized by law to pay the costs of
street lighting in the city of Nauvoo, Illinois. (Ord. 1995-6, 11-21-1995)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Hedge Fences
3-2-2: Planting Trees
3-2-3: Injure, Destroy Trees
3-2-1: HEDGE FENCES:
   A.   Prohibited Conditions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any trees, shrubs,
hedge fences or any Osage hedge fence to overhang the public streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes or sidewalks of the city.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any trees, shrubs,
hedge fence or any Osage hedge fence to obstruct or encroach upon any public
street, alley, avenue, lane or sidewalk of the city.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any trimmings or
cuttings from any trees, shrubs, hedge fence or Osage hedge fence on any public
street, alley, avenue, lane or sidewalk of the city more than twenty four (24)
hours after the same shall have been cut, if it has been properly marked.
   B.   Trimming Required: All shrubs, hedge fences or Osage hedge fences
within the corporate limits of the city shall at all times be kept closely
trimmed. In case any shrubs, trees, hedge fence or Osage hedge fence shall
overhang or obstruct any public street, alley, avenue, lane or sidewalk of the
city, the city marshal shall notify the owner or occupant of the lot on which
such trees, shrubs, hedge fence or Osage hedge fence is situated, forthwith to
trim or cause to be trimmed, such trees, shrubs, hedge fence or Osage hedge
fence in proper shape, as provided herein, and in case the owner or occupant of
such lot shall not, within twenty four (24) hours from the time of being so
notified by the marshal, proceed to trim or remove such hedge, trees, shrubs or
Osage hedge overhanging, encroaching or obstructing as aforesaid, the street
superintendent as notified by the city marshal shall have power and authority,
and it is hereby made his duty to proceed to trim or remove such parts of said
trees, shrubs, hedge fence or Osage hedge fence overhanging, encroaching or
obstructing as aforesaid, the expense of such trimming or removal to be paid by
the owner or occupant of such lot.
   C.   Penalty: Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall, on conviction thereof, be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense. (Ord. 170, 5-2-
1921; amd. 1989 Code; 1991)
3-2-2: PLANTING TREES:
Any person desiring to plant or set out any kind of tree or trees on the public
streets and highways of the city shall first petition the city council for a
permit or privilege for the planting or setting out of the same, specifying the
place or location where the same are to be planted or set out, and also the
kind of tree or trees to be planted. The petition shall be referred to the
streets, buildings and grounds committee who shall investigate the matter
referred to them and who shall have power to act on the petition. (Ord. 196, 5-
3-1926; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2008-13, 4-28-2009)
Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined the sum of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for every day that such tree or trees are allowed to
be planted or set out in violation of the provisions of this section. (Ord.
196, 5-3-1926; amd. 1989 Code)
3-2-3: INJURE, DESTROY TREES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break or otherwise injure or
destroy any tree or trees upon any sidewalk or elsewhere upon city property
without previously securing permission from the streets, buildings and grounds
committee, except as heretofore provided. (Ord. 196, 5-3-1926; amd. 1989 Code;
Ord. 2008-13, 4-28-2009)
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined the sum of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each and every offense. (Ord. 196, 5-3-1926; amd.
1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Control And Supervision Of Parks
3-3-2: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
3-3-3: Penalty
3-3-1: CONTROL AND SUPERVISION OF PARKS:
It shall be the duty of the city marshal to take special control and care of
the public parks of the city, and see that the same are in good repair and
condition at all times, and he shall cause to be prosecuted any and all persons
who shall violate any provision of this chapter. (Ord. XXXV, 9-18-1899)
3-3-2: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, cut, mutilate, injure,
remove or carry away any tree, bench, seat, stand, structure, fence or other
thing whatsoever in or about the public parks or grounds belonging to the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to play any game or games in said
parks or behave in a disorderly or indecent manner so as to disturb or annoy
visitors at, or persons residing near the park.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell anything whatsoever in
public parks, except by permission of the mayor or city council. (Ord. XXXV, 9-
18-1899; amd. 1991)
3-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the foregoing provisions shall, upon
conviction therefor, be fined in a sum of not less than thirty dollars ($30.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord. XXXV, 9-18-
1899; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
3-4-3: Private Sewage Disposal
3-4-4: Building Sewers And Connections
3-4-5: Permit Application Forms
3-4-6: Use Restrictions
3-4-6-1: Discharge Of Effluent
3-4-6-2: Prohibited Substances
3-4-6-3: Materials Under Special Review
3-4-6-4: Interceptors
3-4-6-5: Industrial Wastes
3-4-6-6: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
3-4-6-7: Special Agreements
3-4-7: Protection From Damage
3-4-8: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
3-4-9: Violations And Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
   Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection
agency.
   Federal Act: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.)
as amended by the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972 (Pub.
L. 92-500 and Pub. L. 93-243).
   Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II–grants for
construction of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
   Approving Authority: The council of the city of Nauvoo.
   City: The city of Nauvoo.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent documents or requirements issued by the
administrator, or, where appropriated by the director, after enactment of the
federal water pollution control amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the federal act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
   Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary (or
combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds.
   Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   Storm Water Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
   Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   State Act: The Illinois antipollution bond act of 1970 1 .
   State Grant: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
   Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
   Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc., outstanding and shall
be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the number of users
connected to the wastewater facilities.
   Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
   Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
USER TYPES:
   Commercial User: Transit loading, retail and wholesale establishments or
places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
   Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharge.
   Industrial Users: Establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances
into products.
   Institutional/Governmental User: Schools, hospitals, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   User Class: The type of user; "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial" or "industrial" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
   BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
   Effluent Criteria: Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   Floatable Oil: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average
workday; or
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
municipal system receiving the waste; or
   C.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the federal act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
   Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981; amd. Ord. 1984-11, 1985)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
3-4-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with the subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within
two hundred feet (200') of the property line. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Private System Required: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
under the provisions of subsection
3-4-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section. (Ord.
1980-9, 5-4-1981)
   B.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the city. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as is deemed necessary by the city. A permit and inspection
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981; amd. Ord. 2006-7, 1-9-2007)
   C.   Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
city. The city shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
city when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty four (24)
hours of the receipt of written notice by the city.
   D.   Construction Specifications: The type, capacities, location and layout
of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of
the state of Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code 1  and
with the state of Illinois environmental protection agency. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than fifteen thousand
(15,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
Where the area of the lot is less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet,
the owner must first submit a written plan for his private sewage disposal
system to the water and sewer committee chairman; if the water and sewer
committee so approves the written plan the city council may approve said plan
and issue a permit accordingly.
   E.   Connection To Public Sewers; Fee:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
3-4-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within ninety (90) days after said public sewer becomes available, and any
septic tank, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned, then cleaned, and filled with suitable fill material. (Ord. 1980-9,
5-4-1981)
      2.   The city shall receive as a connection fee the sum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for connecting a private sewage disposal system to the public
sewer in accordance with ordinances now in effect pertaining to such fees
within the city and said connection fee shall be adjusted from time to time as
is required by the city. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981; amd. Ord. 1983-8, 9-6-1983)
   F.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no
expense to the city.
   G.   Provisions Nonlimiting: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the Hancock County health department.
   H.   Compliance With State Regulations: All owners of septic tanks located
within the city limits of the city shall comply strictly with the private
sewage disposal licensing act 2 , and all rules and regulations promulgated by
the public health and safety department, and shall further provide to the city
evidence of compliance with the aforesaid act and rules as is deemed necessary
by the city from time to time after the enactment of this chapter. (Ord. 1980-
9, 5-4-1981)
   I.   Private Sewer Responsibility:
      1.   A sewer line less than eight inches (8") in diameter is a private
lateral and a sewer line eight inches (8") or more in diameter is a main sewer
line.
      2.   All property owners shall be responsible for the cleaning, operation
and maintenance of all private lateral sewer lines at no expense to the city.
      3.   Each landowner will sign a statement to the city that the landowner
understands that they are solely responsible for the cleaning, operation and
maintenance of their private lateral and that at no time shall the city expend
any funds for the cleaning, operation and maintenance of the private lateral.
(Ord. 1991-7, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
2 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
3-4-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
      2.   Classification Of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits:
         a.   For residential and commercial service, and
         b.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the city. A permit and inspection fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for a
residential sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application
is filed. A permit and inspection fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for a
commercial industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the
time the application is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   B.   Separate Sewer Required: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the city, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
state of Illinois plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois" shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection D1 of this section, and discharged to
the building sewer.
      3.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   E.   Connections To Public Sewers:
      1.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the city or its
representative. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to employ a licensed
plumber to run the sewer line from the public sewer to the building. The
construction shall be made under the supervision of the city or its
representative. The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the state of Illinois plumbing code, or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials,
Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois". All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city before
installation. (Ord. 2001-7, 9-11-2001)
   F.   Restrictions On Discharge:
      1.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
      2.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-5: PERMIT APPLICATION FORMS:
Sewer permit applications for residential or commercial buildings, private
sewage disposal or industrial sewer shall be made on forms supplied by the
city, samples of which are attached to ordinance 1980-9 as appendix no. 2.
(1989 Code)
3-4-6: USE RESTRICTIONS:
3-4-6-1: DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENT:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may
be discharged, on approval of the city, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
For any violation of this section there shall be a minimum fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) with the fine to be doubled every seven (7) days should the
violation continue. (Ord. 2001-5, 9-11-2001)
3-4-6-2: PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   C.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   D.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-6-3: MATERIALS UNDER SPECIAL REVIEW:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the city that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant
and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies.
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage to
meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligrams
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the city in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligrams per liter at any time
except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   B.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection A of this section, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA Rules
and Regulations, subchapter D, "Water Programs Part 128 – Pretreatment
Standards, Federal Register" volume 38, no. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973,
and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the city may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of section
3-4-6-7 of this chapter.
If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws.
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-6-4: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the city, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-6-5: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
   A.   Control Manhole: Each industry shall be required to install a control
manhole and, when required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   B.   Building Sewer Carrying Industrial Wastes: The owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall provide
laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of waters and wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special conditions for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge.
The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than once per year the
industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater
discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and local standards
are being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory service. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-6-6: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.) (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-6-7: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
3-4-6 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor, in accordance with article A of this chapter, by
the industrial concern, provided such payments are in accordance with federal
and state guidelines for user charge system and industrial cost recovery
system. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-7: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 1980-9,
5-4-1981)
3-4-8: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The city and other duly authorized employees of the city, the Illinois
environmental protection agency and the U.S. environmental protection agency,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The city or its
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries,
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the city or duly authorized employees of the
city, the Illinois environmental protection agency and the U.S. environmental
protection agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in subsection
3-4-6-5A of this chapter.
   C.   The city and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
3-4-7 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Penalties: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for herein, shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter and
on conviction thereof, said person or persons shall be fined in an amount not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation.
   C.   Revocation Of Permit: The city may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
   D.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation. (Ord.
1980-9, 5-4-1981)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A.  RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Wastewater Service Charges
3-4A-2: Bills For Service; Delinquencies; Revenue
3-4A-3: Effect Of Rates And Charges
3-4A-4: Water And Sewer Replacement/Extension Charge
3-4A-1: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charges: The wastewater service charge for
the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the city
shall consist of a basic user charge for operations and maintenance plus
replacement, applicable surcharges and a debt service charge.
      1.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge is a monthly allocation
based upon the fixed cost of both the treatment, plant and sewer extension and
sewer rehabilitation charge.
      2.   Basic User Charge: The basic user charge shall be based on water
usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the
following normal domestic concentrations:
A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen demand (BOD
of 200 milligrams per liter).
A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred forty milligrams per liter (240
mg/l).
It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement (OM&R) and
shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimated wastewater volume, pounds of suspended solids and
pounds of BOD to be treated.
         b.   Estimate of the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         c.   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by volume,
suspended solids and BOD.
         d.   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) costs to wastewater facility categories by volume, suspended solids and
BOD.
         e.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
         f.   Compute surcharge costs per pound per one thousand (1,000)
gallons in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
      3.   Surcharges: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters
exceed the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 milligrams per liter) and
SS (240 milligrams per liter). The surcharge will be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the
two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and two hundred forty milligrams
per liter (240 mg/l) concentration for BOD and SS respectively.
      4.   Review Of Charges; Revisions: The adequacy of the wastewater service
charge shall be reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public
accountants for the city in their annual audit report. The wastewater service
charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs
or a change in operation and maintenance costs including replacement costs.
      5.   Notice To Users: The users of wastewater treatment service will be
notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate of that
portion of the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   B.   Determination Of Charges; Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used
for computing basic user charges and surcharges shall be the metered water
consumption read to the lowest even increments of one hundred (100) gallons.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the City for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these
other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the City if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the City. (Ord. 1984-7, 9-24-1984)
   C.   Rates And Charges Established:
      1.   Minimum Charge; Public User Rate: There shall be and there is hereby
established a minimum charge and a basic usage rate for the use of, and for the
service supplied by, the wastewater facilities of the City. For properties
located outside the City limits, the basic user rate shall be 1.5 times the
current rate. (Ord. 2010-10, 1-11-2011)
         a.   A minimum charge shall be applied to all users whose water
consumption up to, and including one thousand (1,000) gallons is as follows:
 
Year  Charge
2016  $4.86
2017  5.01
2018  5.16
2019  5.31
2020  5.47
2021  5.63
 
         b.   A basic user rate per one thousand (1,000) gallons shall be
applied to all users for water consumption over one thousand (1,000) gallons as
follows:
 
Year  Charge
2016  $4.86
2017  5.01
2018  5.16
2019  5.31
2020  5.47
2021  5.63
 
(Ord. 2005-19, 5-9-2006; amd. Ord. 2010-10, 1-11-2011; Ord. 2015-09, 3-8-2016)
         c.   Beginning with payments of water bills for September 2004, twenty
five cents ($0.25) per one thousand (1,000) gallons shall be placed in the
equipment replacement fund. (Ord. 2004-7, 8-10-2004)
      2.   Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge, per month, is hereby
fixed by the City for the following specified users: (Ord. 1984-7, 9-24-1984)
 
Nauvoo Restoration, Inc.    $258.01 per month
Nauvoo Colusa Grade School  10.01 per month
Nauvoo State Park           34.01 per month
 
(Ord. 1984-7, 9-24-1984; amd. Ord. 2010-10, 1-11-2011)
In addition to the above entities there is hereby assigned to all other users
of the sewer system, hereinafter referred to as "domestic user", the amount of
seven dollars seventy nine cents ($7.79) per month. (Ord. 1984-7, 9-24-1984)
      3.   Surcharge Rate 1 : The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be
as follows:
 
                 $0.20 per pound on the first 800 pounds per day
Per pound of BOD $0.50 per pound on the next 200 pounds per day
                 $1.00 per pound on every pound over 1,000 pounds per day
Per pound of SS  $0.48 per pound
 
   (Ord. 2000-8, 1-9-2001)
   D.   Computation Of Charges:
      1.   Formula:
         CW = CD = CM = (Vu-X) CU + CS
Where     CW = Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period.
      CD = Debt service charge.
      CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement.
      Vu = Wastewater volume for billing period.
      X = Allowable consumption in gallons or the minimum charge.
      CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement.
      CS = Amount of surcharge. (Ord. 1984-7, 9-24-1984)
 
      2.   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the city and shall be
binding as a basis for such surcharges.
      3.   Method Of Computation Available To Users: The method for computation
of rates and service charges established for user charges in this article shall
be made available to a user within thirty (30) days of receipt by the city of a
written request from said user for such method of computation. In the event the
method of computation of rates and service charges for such user is deemed by
the city to be in error, then in that event, the city reserves the right to
make such adjustments as are necessary to remedy the error in that method of
computation. In the event the city is unable to find any error in the method of
computation as applied to such user, the city shall provide written
notification of such finding to such user within thirty (30) days after the
making of that finding. (Ord. 1984-11, 1985)
      4.   Method Of Computation For Industrial Users; Disagreements: The
method of computation of industrial surcharges shall be based on a standard
formula: flow x BOD (express in parts per million) x 8.35 - 1,000,000 x
surcharge rate/lb. In the event of disagreement between the city and the
industrial user over charges assessed the user, the user may engage the
services of an independent certified laboratory, mutually acceptable to both
the city and the user. The independent certified laboratory shall determine the
accuracy of the city and user analysis and determination of BOD and SS
constituencies present in the water and wastewaters in dispute. Whichever party
employs the independent certified laboratory shall be solely responsible for
the costs associated with obtaining the opinion of the independent certified
laboratory. In the event the measurements, tests and analyses of the
independent certified laboratory more closely parallels the analyses by the
user, then in that event the city shall accept the independent certified
laboratory's analysis. In the event the independent certified laboratory
analyses more closely resembles the analyses of the city, then in that event
the city's analyses shall be applied in accordance with its standard formula to
compute the surcharges for the user during the period in dispute. (Ord. 1984-
10, 4-1-1985)
 
Notes
  1. The wastewater service charges set forth in this subsection C3 shall stay
1 in effect after December 31, 2010, unless changed by the City of Nauvoo,
  Illinois.
3-4A-2: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES; REVENUE:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills; Liability For Payment: Bills for sewer service
shall be sent out by the city clerk on the first day of the month succeeding
the period for which the service is billed. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
All sewer bills are due and payable twenty (20) days after being sent out. A
penalty of two percent (2%) per month shall be added to all bills not paid by
the day after they are due. (Ord., 3-1-1982; amd. 1991)
Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly depending on the
classification of service for which bills are rendered.
The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service
shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises
and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the
condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are
jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
   B.   Delinquent Bills 1 :
      1.   Discontinuance Of Service: If the charges for such water 2  and
sewer services are not paid within forty (40) days after the date of the bill
for such service, then all city services for water and sewer shall be
discontinued without further notice and shall not be reinstated until all
claims are settled. (Ord. 1989-5, 10-3-1989, eff. 11-20-1989)
      2.   Lien: Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for one
hundred twenty (120) days for monthly service after the date of its rendition,
the city treasurer shall file with the county recorder of deeds a statement of
lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city claims a lien
for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by
the bill.
If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the city
treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address be known to the treasurer, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for the period of ninety (90) days for a monthly bill after the date of
rendition.
The failure of the city clerk to record such lien or to mail such notice or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing subsection B1
of this section.
      3.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the city. The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid forty five (45) days in the case of a monthly bill or one
hundred five (105) days in the case of a quarterly bill after it has been
rendered.
   C.   Disposition Of Revenues:
      1.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the sewerage fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the city treasurer separate and apart
from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the city
and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the
city treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at
such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the mayor
and council.
      2.   The city treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the "sewerage fund of the city". The treasurer shall
administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the
"revised cities and villages act", effective January 1942 3 .
   D.   Accounts; Annual Audit: The city clerk shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern for the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit report
shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
   E.   Access To Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency or its
authorized representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and
records of the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges or
industrial cost recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts
and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special
and general conditions to any state grant. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
   F.   Notice Of Rates: A copy of this section, properly certified by the city
treasurer, shall be filed in the office of the recorder of deeds of Hancock
County, Illinois, and shall be deemed notice to all owners of real estate of
the charges of the sewerage system of the city on their property.
Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable
to wastewater treatment services. (Ord. 1984-11, 1985)
   G.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-10-2 of this code.
2 2. See also chapter 6 of this title.
3 1. 65 ILCS.
3-4A-3: EFFECT OF RATES AND CHARGES:
The rates and service charges established for user charges in this article and
for industrial cost recovery shall be effective as of the passage and
publication of this chapter as is required by law. (Ord. 1980-9, 5-4-1981)
3-4A-4: WATER AND SEWER REPLACEMENT/EXTENSION CHARGE:
   A.   Additional User Charge Established: An additional basic user charge in
the amount of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per user, each month, for the
replacement and/or extension of water and sewer lines in the city of Nauvoo is
established and will commence on May 1, 1994.
   B.   "User" Defined: The term "user" as referred to in this section shall
include the following:
   COMMERCIAL USER: Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS: Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substances into products.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Includes schools, hospitals, churches,
penal institutions and users associated with federal, state and local
governments.
   RESIDENTIAL USER: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   C.   Duration Of Application: The additional basic user charge in the amount
of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per user, each month, shall begin on May 1,
1994, and continue until the city council of the city of Nauvoo modifies or
repeals this section. (Ord. 1993-6, 4-12-1994)
CHAPTER 5
WATERWORKS SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Water Department To Control
3-5-2: Application For Water Use; Deposit
3-5-3: Connection And Use Procedures
3-5-4: Water Meter Requirement, Maintenance, And Repair
3-5-5: Liability Of City
3-5-6: Right Of Entry For Inspection
3-5-7: Water For Construction Purpose
3-5-8: Water Consumer And Plumber Regulations
3-5-9: Water Turnoff
3-5-10: Lawn Sprinkling Regulated
3-5-11: Penalty
3-5-1: WATER DEPARTMENT TO CONTROL:
There is hereby established an executive department of the city, and the mayor
is hereby authorized to appoint, subject to confirmation by the city council, a
superintendent of said water department and all other necessary employees, and
said superintendent shall have the general management and control of the
waterworks system of the city, subject, however, to the supervision of the city
council 1 . (Ord. 301, 7-6-1948)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 6, article H of this code.
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER USE; DEPOSIT:
Every person in the city wishing to use water from the waterworks system of the
city shall file with the city clerk his application in writing signed by such
applicant for a permit so to do and for a water meter, and when it is necessary
to tap the water mains or water pipes of the city in order to obtain such
water, then such application shall include a request for a permit to tap the
same. Such application shall designate the property in or for which the water
is to be used. If the applicant is not the owner in fee simple of the record
title to the property where the applicant desires the water turned on,
residential users shall deposit with their applications the sum of not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00), for water service only and seventy five dollars
($75.00) for water and sewer service before any water is turned on. Commercial
and industrial users shall deposit twice the estimated monthly usage as
confirmed by the city engineer before any water is turned on. Such deposit
shall be held by the city as security for the payment for water used by the
applicant, and may be so applied when any default is made in payment of a water
bill. When an application conforming with this section has been made and fees
and deposits which are now, or may hereafter be, required by ordinance have
been paid, the superintendent of the water department of the city shall issue
to such applicant the permit prayed for in his application, which permit shall
be in writing and signed by the superintendent of the water department. Such
deposit shall be refunded the applicant when he moves from the premises,
providing no water bills or other charges are outstanding against him at the
time. Every person who is the owner or in possession of a structure which uses
water and is located on real estate within the corporate limits shall be
connected to the city's waterworks system within ninety (90) days from the date
the water facilities become available to the real estate. (Ord. 302, 7-6-1948;
amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 1997-5, 12-9-1997; Ord. 2000-8, 1-9-2001; Ord. 2006-9, 11-
14-2006)
When an application for water use is made to the city, an estimated cost of
material to be furnished by the city and paid for by the applicant shall be
made. The total estimated cost of the material shall be paid in advance before
the superintendent of the water department of the city shall issue to such
applicant the permit requested in the application. The balance of the cost of
the material used and all other applicable fees shall be paid in full before
the water is turned on.
If the water service is activated before all applicable fees are paid and/or an
account is established with the city collector, a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per occurrence will be imposed to the property owner. The billing
date for water usage will be on the date the water tap was performed. (Ord.
2007-9, 1-8-2008)
3-5-3: CONNECTION AND USE PROCEDURES:
   A.   When a permit for the use of water has been granted, the city shall
lay, or cause to be laid, a service pipe from the curb line and property line
of the applicant, terminating at a curb cock and box. The applicant shall, at
his own expense, lay or cause to be laid the necessary service pipe from the
curb cock into the premises to be served. The entire cost of keeping such
service pipes in repair shall be paid by the person at whose application such
repair is made; provided, that the expense of repairing service pipes between
the mains and the curb cock and box shall be borne by the city. The distance of
the service pipe from the curb line and property line of the applicant,
terminating at a curb cock shall not exceed fifty feet (50'). If such water
service must cross a city or state road or alley that requires boring and
casting, the cost of such boring and/or casting shall be borne by the applicant
for the service or the owner of the property being served. All expense for more
than fifty feet (50') shall be at the cost of and installed by the owner of the
property to be served or the applicant for service. All such water service
shall have a curb cock on the terrace with a stop box flush with the ground.
(Ord. 302, 7-6-1948; amd. Ord. 2006-9, 11-14-2006)
   B.   All service pipes shall be laid not less than four feet (4') below the
established surface grade at all points of all streets, alleys or public
grounds of the city where a surface grade is now or shall be hereafter
established, and at least five feet (5') below the ground at all points. No
pipe shall be used except strong lead or copper pipe from the water main to the
curb cock and box at or near the property line, and no pipe shall be used from
the said curb cock and box to the outlet of such service pipe except strong
lead pipe, brass pipe, copper pipe or the highest grade of wrought iron pipe,
such as Byers galvanized wrought iron pipe. All meters shall be placed in a
location approved by the superintendent of waterworks. (Ord. 302, 7-6-1948)
At no time will plastic or galvanized pipe be used regardless of who is laying
said pipe. No water shall be turned on for service in any premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the city provided that water
may be turned on for construction work in an unfinished building subject to the
approval of the water superintendent.
Excavation for installing service pipes and laterals and repairing the same
shall be made in compliance with the provisions of this code relating to making
excavations and streets, provided that it shall be unlawful to place any
service pipes in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drainpipe or
sewer lateral.
Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe and shall
be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is practical.
Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible and shall be
protected from fraud.
No owner or plumber shall be permitted to connect water pipes to any two (2)
distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks shall be
placed on the outside of each such premises along the sidewalk opposite the
same, nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining
premises. Duplex flats, double houses and apartment houses shall be considered
as one "premises". A "premises" shall be construed to cover all buildings and
divisions under one common roof, owned by one party, who will be charged for
all services to such premises. (Ord. 2006-9, 11-14-2006)
   C.   No person shall, in any manner, obstruct the access to any stopcock,
hydrant or valve or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any
street, alley, public way, public ground or place connected with or part of
said waterworks system, nor pile or place any lumber, brick or building
material or other article, thing or hindrance whatsoever, within twelve feet
(12') of the same, or so as to in any manner hinder, delay or obstruct the
members of the fire department in reaching the same. It shall be unlawful for
any person in any manner to interfere with or obstruct the flow, retention,
storage or authorized use of water in said waterworks system, reservoir or
plant, or any part thereof, or to injure, deface, remove or displace any water
main, hydrant, service pipe, water meter, shutoff box, public fountain valve,
engine or building connected with said waterworks system or plant, or to cause,
suffer or permit any of said things to be done. Any person who shall perform
any act in violation of this subsection shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and shall, in addition, be liable for the actual damage
done or caused.
   D.   No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire
hydrant or service cock, or use water therefrom when so turned on, under
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, and the person so
using or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall be liable to pay for the
same. (Ord. 302, 7-6-1948; amd. 1989 Code)
   E.   The city shall be responsible for installing the corporation stop on
the main, laying copper water line to the property line and installing the curb
stop and box. Once this is installed, the user shall be responsible for
maintenance of the line from the main to his house.
   F.   All water mains shall be of cast iron construction and all service
lines shall be of K copper construction, unless authorized otherwise by the
city council prior to installing the same. (Ord. 1977-5, 10-3-1977, eff.
retroactive to 10-1-1977)
3-5-4: WATER METER REQUIREMENT, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR:
   A.   All water consumers supplied by the city shall be supplied through
meters only, and shall pay for the water consumed at the rates and in the
manner hereinafter specified.
   B.   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair or for any
cause, fails to properly register the water passing through the same, the
consumer shall be charged at the rate determined at a three (3) month average
shown for the corresponding time of the previous year under like conditions. If
no record of the previous years exists, then it shall be the duty of the
superintendent of the water department to estimate or determine so far as he
can the amount of water consumed during the time such meter failed to operate,
and the consumer shall pay the amount so estimated. (Ord. 1995-2, 7-11-1995)
   C.   In order to recover the cost of providing a new meter and installation
to water customers, the city of Nauvoo, through the water department, will
charge a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee for a five-eighths by three-fourths
inch (5/8 x 3/4") meter, a one hundred forty dollar ($140.00) fee for a three-
fourths by three- fourths inch (3/4 x 3/4") meter, and a one hundred sixty
dollar ($160.00) fee for one inch (1") meters. For meters larger than one inch
(1"), a fee will be quoted based upon the particular usage and installation
requested by the customer. (Ord. 2007-10, 5-13-2008)
   D.   The city of Nauvoo retains the right of ownership of all water meters.
The city of Nauvoo will provide, at no additional cost, repair or replacement,
at the option of the city, of all meters that malfunction as the result of
normal use.
   E.   If a water meter is damaged because of neglect or abuse (freezing or
other physical abuse or tampering), the city will, at its option, repair or
replace the meter and require reimbursement from the customer to cover the cost
of the repair or replacement. Failure to pay the reimbursement fee will result
in termination of water service to the customer. Water service will not be
resumed until all fees have been paid in full, including an additional fifteen
dollar ($15.00) turnon fee.
   F.   All new water meter fees and fees for repair or replacement of meters
due to neglect or abuse will be the responsibility of the property owner. (Ord.
1995-2, 7-11-1995)
   G.   The money received from water meter deposits, and all other deposits
received by the water department, shall be placed in a revolving fund for the
purchase and maintenance of water meters. (Ord. 2006-9, 11-14-2006)
3-5-5: LIABILITY OF CITY:
All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all water used hereunder,
shall be upon the express condition that the city shall not be liable, nor
shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury caused by reason of
the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or appurtenances
connected with the waterworks system or plant, or any part or portion thereof,
or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of machinery,
or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewals. (Ord. 302, 7-6-
1948)
3-5-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
The city and its employees shall have ready access to the premises, places or
buildings where meters are located for the purpose of reading, examining,
testing and repairing the same, and examining and testing the consumption, use
and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to
interfere with, prevent or obstruct the city or its duly authorized agent, in
its duties hereunder. Every consumer of water shall take the same upon the
conditions specified in this section. (Ord. 302, 7-6-1948)
3-5-7: WATER FOR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSE:
Persons desiring to use city water for building or construction purposes shall
make application therefor in writing and file the same in the office of the
city clerk on a form provided for that purpose. Upon a permit being granted
(permits shall be issued in writing and signed by the superintendent of the
water department), the service pipe shall be carried at the expense of the
applicant to the inside of the curb line, where a service cock and meter shall
be placed, with pipe leading to the surface, and a faucet at the end thereof
above said surface. When the building or construction work is completed, the
faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless permanent
connection thereunder is made. Charge for the use and connecting of meters
shall be as prescribed hereafter by the city council. (Ord. 302, 7-6-1948)
3-5-8: WATER CONSUMER AND PLUMBER REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for the consumers of water and for plumbers
are hereby adopted and established:
   A.   No water shall be furnished or supplied to any consumer for any purpose
whatever until such consumer shall make application therefor. Such application
shall state the location of the premises to be served and the use to which the
water will be put.
   B.   No water consumer may supply water to other families or allow them to
take it, except for use on the premises and for the purposes specified in the
application, nor after water is introduced into any building or upon any
premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any tap or
connection with the work upon the premises for alterations, repairs, extensions
or attachments without a written permit therefor to be issued by the
superintendent of the water department.
   C.   The city reserves the right to shut off water at any time in the mains
for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections with or extensions
to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of the city in case of
fire, and for restricting the use of water in case of deficiency in supply. No
claim shall be made against the city by reason of the breaking of any service
pipe or service cock, or damage arising from shutting off of water for
repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other connections or repairing
any part of the waterworks system, or from failure of the water supply, or by
increasing the water pressure at any time, or from concentration or restricted
use of water as above specified.
   D.   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into any
two (2) different premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks
shall be placed on the outside of such premises along the sidewalk opposite the
same, nor shall any pipe be allowed in cross lots or buildings to adjoining
premises, unless a permit is issued for such purpose by the superintendent of
the water department.
   E.   In all cases where one service pipe supplies two (2) or more separate
consumers in a building, one meter may be placed at the service connection for
either or all of said consumers, and the water rent, as registered by such
meters, shall be charged to and be payable by the owner of such premises or
building. (Ord. 302, 7-6-1948)
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city to
tamper with, alter or injure any part of the city's waterworks system or meter.
(Ord. 2006-9, 11-14-2006)
3-5-9: WATER TURNOFF:
For violation of any of the foregoing rules or for the nonpayment of water
bills, the city reserves the right to turn off the water without notice and to
forfeit any payments made, and after the water has been turned off from any
service pipe on account of nonpayment of water bills, or violation of rules,
the same will not be turned on until all delinquent bills and penalties are
paid, together with expense of turning off and on such water, which will be ten
dollars ($10.00), and no water will be furnished to any person who is indebted
to the city on account of water consumed, material or repairs. (Ord. 302, 7-6-
1948; amd. 1989 Code)
3-5-10: LAWN SPRINKLING REGULATED:
The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hoses for
sprinkling lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the city council,
public exigencies require it. (Ord. 302, 7-6-1948)
3-5-11: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the rules and regulations provided for in
section
 3-5-8 of this chapter, respecting the regulations for consumers of water and
for plumbers, shall, upon conviction, in addition to the enforcement of the
forfeiture and liabilities therein contained, pay a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense. (Ord. 302, 7-6-1948; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2006-9, 11-14-
2006)
CHAPTER 6
COMBINED WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Connection Fees
3-6-2: Bulk Purchase Of Water
3-6-3: Water And Sewer Rates
3-6-4: New Users Of System
3-6-5: Multiple Occupancy Users
3-6-6: Mobile Homes And House Trailers
3-6-7: Water Service Charges
3-6-1: CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   The water connection fee shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus
the costs of materials for a one inch (1") service, except where two (2) 1-inch
services are put in by one (1) property owner at the same time, the connection
fee shall be one hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00) each. The water
connection fee for larger service connections shall be:
    SizFee
    Size  Fee
11/2 inches $  600.00
2 inches    700.00
3 inches    800.00
4 inches    1,000.00
6 inches    3,000.00
8 inches    5,000.00
 
All of the above water connection fees shall have added to them all costs to
the City. For taps larger than the City is capable of performing, the property
owner shall pay the cost of the City contracting said tap plus all other costs
to the City. The amount of tapping fee shall be required as a down payment
before work can begin.
The City will be responsible to run said water line to the property line or
fifty feet (50') whichever comes first. (Ord. 2001-6, 9-11-2001)
The water processing fee shall be forty dollars ($40.00). (Ord. 2011-13, 4-10-
2012)
   B.   The connection fee shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a four
inch (4") line to a City sewer main. The maintenance and upkeep of sewer lines
from residence, building or property, once installed, shall be the
responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 1977-8, 12-7-1977, eff. 1-1-1978;
amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   The connection fees set forth above shall be paid at the time the
user's application for connection is approved. (Ord. 1970-4, 6-22-1970)
   D.   For water and sewer main extensions, the City will pay for the
extension of water lines, not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) from
the Water Line Extension Fund until the fund is depleted. Any cost over five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) will be paid by the owner of the real estate. The
owner of the real estate will pay for the entire cost of a sewer extension
except for the engineering cost for one (1) sewer connection. If there are
existing structures which must hook onto the sewer extension, the owner will be
credited for those connections. (Ord. 2002-4, 8-13-2002)
3-6-2: BULK PURCHASE OF WATER:
Anyone who purchases water in bulk at the City's water plant shall pay a water
fee per month per one thousand (1,000) gallons as follows: (Ord. 2007-2, 5-31-
2007; amd. Ord. 2015-09, 3-8-2016)
 
Year   Charge
2017  $ 9.25
2018  9.53
2019  9.82
2020  10.11
2021  10.41
 
(Ord. 2015-09, 3-8-2016)
3-6-3: WATER AND SEWER RATES 1 :
The users of the combined water and sewer systems shall pay the following
rates:
   A.   There is hereby established as and for the water usage rate structure
within the City the following usage charge: (Ord. 2007-2, 5-31-2007)
The minimum charge per month, for all City residents who use up to and
including two thousand (2,000) gallons per month shall be as follows: (Ord.
2011-13, 4-10-2012)
 
Year  Charge
2017  $23.64
2018  24.35
2019  25.08
2020  25.83
2021  26.60
 
(Ord. 2015-09, 3-8-2016)
Flat rate charge per one thousand (1,000) gallons per month over two thousand
(2,000) gallons per month shall be as follows: (Ord. 2007-2, 5-31-2007)
 
Year  Charge
2017  $6.93
2018  7.14
2019  7.35
2020  7.57
2021  7.80
 
(Ord. 2015-09, 3-8-2016)
   B.   Users outside the City limits, connected to the system, shall pay a
premium for Municipal water service, the rate shall be at two (2) times the
minimum rate for City users with gallons over two thousand (2,000) charged for
at the same rate as City users. (Ord. 1977-8, 12-7-1977, eff. 1-1-1978; amd.
1991)
   C.   Sewer service shall be based on the rates and service charges as set
forth in subsection
3-4A-1C of this title. (Ord. 2007-2, 5-31-2007)
   D.   A fee of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per one hundred (100) gallons
shall be charged the operators of sanitation trucks that pump waste from septic
tanks into the City sewer system. (Ord. 2011-13, 4-10-2012)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 1-10-2 of this Code and subsection
  3-4A-2B1 of this title regarding delinquent bills.
3-6-4: NEW USERS OF SYSTEM:
   A.   "New user" shall mean anyone using the City water and/or sewer system
for the first time after March 1, 1973.
   B.   Any new user of the City water and sewer services shall deposit the sum
of forty five dollars ($45.00) with the City Clerk, before being allowed to
connect or use the City combined water and sewer system.
   C.   Any new user of the City's water service, who is not connected to the
City's sewer, shall deposit the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) with the City
Clerk before being allowed to connect to, or use, the City's water. Said
deposit of the user held by the City can and shall be used by the City to pay
any delinquent sewer and/or water bill of the user.
   D.   Upon notice by the user that he shall no longer be a user of the City's
water and/or sewer system, and if he has paid in full all of the water and/or
sewer bill owing to the City as of the date of the discontinuation of use, the
user shall be entitled to a refund of his deposit. In the event the user owes
the City money for water and/or sewer, the deposit of the user shall first be
applied to the amount owing to the City, and the balance, if any, refunded to
the user. (Ord. 1973-2, 2-5-1973)
3-6-5: MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY USERS:
   A.   The following applies to buildings under one (1) roof which have
"multiple occupancy":
      1.   Each living facility or business facility in a building under one
(1) roof which has multiple occupancy shall be considered a premises and shall
be billed a separate monthly water usage charge and/or separate sewer usage
charge, if connected to the sewer, except that no separate charge will be made
to a business facility in a multiple occupancy building which does not require
or use water and/or sewer, in the general conduct of the business, or to a
living facility from which, or in which, a business is conducted. A "living
facility" is loosely defined as one having kitchen facilities and a separate
bedroom, with separate or shared bathroom facilities, but not a facility that
has sleeping rooms only.
      2.   Where the water is metered to a multiple occupancy building by one
meter, the monthly water usage charge and/or sewer usage charge, for each
facility, whether occupied or not, within the building, shall be computed by
dividing the metered amount used each month by the number of facilities served
by the meter and applying this amount used per facility to the established rate
schedule. Where each facility is metered separately, the monthly usage charge
and/or sewer usage charge will be computed from the water metered for each
facility.
      3.   These regulations apply to all buildings under one roof which have
multiple occupancy whether rented or owned or used by the same person or more
than one person.
      4.   The owners and the occupants of a "multiple occupancy" building and
the user of the water services and/or sewer services therein shall be jointly
and severally liable for the payment of water services, and/or sewer services,
to said building and its facilities in a building where one meter serves more
than one user.
   B.   If any bill for water services, and/or sewer services, shall remain
unpaid after one month following the rendition of the bill therefor, a notice
shall be stamped or otherwise placed on the next following water and/or sewer
bill in words to the general meaning as follows:
City law provides that all users who are thirty (30) days delinquent shall have
water service shut off and a fee and deposit will have to be paid before
service will be resumed.
   C.   Before water service is restored to a user whose water service has been
shut off for nonpayment of bills, the user: 1) shall make a deposit in an
amount equal to three (3) times the largest monthly service charge assessed the
user within the year past; 2) shall pay an "interrupted service fee" in the
amount of ten dollars ($10.00); and 3) shall pay in full the delinquent service
charges.
   D.   An "interrupted service fee" of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be charged
before water service is turned back on for a user who has had his water service
shut off because of nonpayment of a bill, as provided by law, or because of a
voluntary request for interruption of service such as during a vacation period.
(Ord. 1965-6, 12-6-1965; amd. 1989 Code; 1991)
3-6-6: MOBILE HOMES AND HOUSE TRAILERS:
   A.   The following applies to mobile homes and house trailers:
      1.   "Mobile home" and "trailer" as used in this section means a vehicle
used for living purposes and standing or designed to stand on wheels or rigid
support.
      2.   Each mobile home or house trailer shall be considered a premises and
shall be billed a separate monthly water usage charge and/or separate sewer
usage charge if connected to the city.
      3.   The owner of a mobile home or house trailer and the owner of the
real estate where the trailer is located shall be jointly and severally liable
for the payment of the water and/or sewer services.
      4.   Where the water is run to more than one mobile home or trailer by
one meter, the monthly water usage charge and/or sewer usage charge, for each
facility, whether occupied or not, shall be computed by dividing the metered
amount used each month by the number of trailers or mobile homes served by the
meter and applying this amount per facility to the established rate schedule.
Where each facility is metered separately, the monthly water usage charge, and/
or sewer usage charge, will be computed from the water metered for each
facility.
   B.   Whenever any mobile home or house trailer shall hereafter be connected
with the waterworks distribution, a deposit in the amount of thirty dollars
($30.00) shall be made.
   C.   If any bill for water service and/or sewer service shall remain unpaid
after one month following the rendition of the bill therefor, a notice shall be
stamped or otherwise placed on the next following water and/or sewer bill in
words to the general meaning as follows:
City law provides that all users who are thirty (30) days delinquent shall have
water service shut off and a fee and deposit will have to be paid before
service will be resumed.
   D.   Before water service is restored to a user whose water service has been
shut off for nonpayment of a bill, the user: 1) shall make a deposit in an
amount equal to three (3) times the largest monthly service charge assessed the
user within the year past; 2) shall pay an "interrupted service fee" in the
amount of ten dollars ($10.00); and 3) shall pay in full the delinquent service
charges.
   E.   An "interrupted service fee" of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be charged
before water service is turned back on for a user who has had his water service
shut off because of nonpayment of a bill, as provided by law, or because of a
voluntary request for interruption of service such as during a vacation period.
(Ord. 1970-1, 2-2-1970; amd. 1989 Code; 1991)
3-6-7: WATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   The water service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
water facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge, a debt
service charge, and a capital improvement charge.
   B.   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the operation,
maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs and shall be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters.
The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
Estimate the annual water volume.
Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and maintain the
water facilities, including a replacement fund for the year, for all works
categories.
Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons. (Ord. 2006-9, 11-14-2006)
   C.   The debt service charge is computed by apportioning the annual debt
service as a fixed charge plus a charge per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
   D.   The capital improvement charge is levied on users to provide for
capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the waterworks. The
capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual amount to be
accrued as a fixed charge plus a charge per one thousand (1,000) gallons. (Ord.
2009-7, 3-9-2010)
   E.   The adequacy of the water service charge shall be reviewed, not less
often than annually, by certified public accountants for the city in their
annual audit report. The water service charge shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in local capital costs or OM&R costs.
   F.   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges shall be the
metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments depending on meter
size.
If the person procures any part, or all, of his water from sources other than
the public waterworks system, the person shall install and maintain, at his
expense, water meters of a type approved by the water department for the
purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these other sources.
Where:   
Where:   
CW     = Amount of water service charge ($) per billing period
CC     = Capital improvement charge
CD     = Debt service charge
CM     = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
Vu     = Water volume for the billing period
X      = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
CU     = Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
 
   G.   Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly or quarterly
depending on the classification of service for which bills are rendered. The
owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall
be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the
service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition that
the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the city.
Bills for service shall be sent out by the city collector on the first day of
the month or quarter succeeding the period for which the service is billed.
All bills are due and payable twenty (20) days after being sent out. A penalty
of two percent (2%) shall be added to all bills not paid by the day after they
are due.
   H.   If the charges for such services are not paid within forty (40) days
hereinabove mentioned after the rendition of the bill for such services, such
services shall be discontinued without further notice and shall not be
reinstated until all claims are settled.
   I.   Whenever a bill for service remains unpaid for one hundred twenty (120)
days for monthly service or quarterly service after it has been rendered, the
city collector shall file with the county recorder of deeds a statement of lien
claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city claims a lien
for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by
the bill.
If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the city
collector has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address be known to the collector, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for a period of forty five (45) days for a monthly bill or one hundred
five (105) days for a quarterly bill after it has been rendered. The failure of
the city collector to record such lien or to mail such notice or the failure of
the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in this subsection.
   J.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
city. The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such
matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid forty five
(45) days in the case of a monthly bill or one hundred five (105) days in the
case of a quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
   K.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the water system
shall be deposited in the water account of the water fund. All such revenues
and monies shall be held by the city treasurer separate and apart from his
private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the city treasurer
not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may from time to time be directed by the mayor and council.
The city treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water system and
all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as the same
may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the fund
designated as the "water fund of the city". Said treasurer shall administer
such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the "revised
cities and villages act", effective January 1942.
   L.   The city treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system, and at
regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
water system.
   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit report
shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water facilities,
including a replacement cost. The financial information to be shown in the
audit report shall include the following:
      Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for the
current fiscal year.
      Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      Number of users connected to the system.
      Number of nonmetered users.
   M.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
   N.   The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the city which are applicable to the
city system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any state grant/loan agreement and rules or
any state loan.
   O.   The rates and service charges established herein for user charges shall
be effective as of the next fiscal year beginning May 1 and on bills to be
rendered for the next succeeding month being June for monthly users.
   P.   The method for computation of rates and service charges established
herein for user charges shall be made available to a user within ten (10) days
of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used
or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the city of Nauvoo within
thirty (30) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies. (Ord. 2006-9, 11-14-2006)
CHAPTER 7
CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Approval Required For Cross Connections
3-7-2: Surveys, Investigations And Inspections
3-7-3: Backflow Prevention Devices
3-7-4: Unlawful Connections; Discontinuance Of Water Service
3-7-5: Cleanup Costs To Consumer
3-7-1: APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit to
be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply of the city enters the supply
or distribution system of the municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the superintendent of water and the Illinois
environmental protection agency. (Ord. 1987-2, 6-1-1987, eff. 6-1-1987)
3-7-2: SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public records and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the superintendent of water shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years.
   B.   The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the water
superintendent or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the superintendent of water any information which he
may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the superintendent of water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 1987-2, 6-1-1987,
eff. 6-1-1987)
3-7-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices as required by the Illinois plumbing
code and local regulations. (Ord. 1987-2, 6-1-1987, eff. 6-1-1987)
3-7-4: UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS; DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
The superintendent of water of the city is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) is paid to the city. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be
effected when the superintendent of water is assured that imminent danger of
harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action
shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. (Ord.
1987-2, 6-1-1987, eff. 6-1-1987)
3-7-5: CLEANUP COSTS TO CONSUMER:
The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (Ord. 1987-2, 6-1-1987, eff. 6-1-1987)
CHAPTER 8
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
3-8-3: Fee Imposed
3-8-4: Collection, Enforcement, And Administration
3-8-5: Compliance With Other Laws
3-8-6: Existing Franchises And Licenses
3-8-7: Penalties
3-8-8: Enforcement
3-8-9: Waiver
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the city, and
for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the city, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within the
city, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the city. However, "gross charges" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made under:
1) the fee imposed by this chapter, 2) additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public utilities act, 3)
amounts collected under section 8-11-17 of the Illinois municipal code, 4) the
tax imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act, 5) 911 surcharges, or 6)
the tax imposed by section 4251 of the internal revenue code;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the city;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the city;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices; or
   I.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the city.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any municipal street, alley, water or public right of way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements
wherein the city has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit the
location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities. "Public
right of way" shall not include any real or personal city property that is not
specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not include city
buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are
situated in the public right of way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business,
or any agent or other representative operating within this state under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in this state.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air to ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include wireless telecommunications
as hereinafter defined. "Telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end to end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the city
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Any telecommunications retailer; and
   B.   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Means and includes every
person engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail
as defined in this section. The city may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the city, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the
fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the fee
upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the city.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(C) of the
telecommunications act of 1996 (public law no. 104-104), 42 USC section 332(c)
(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services. (Ord. 1997-8, 4-14-1998)
3-8-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
   A.   Every "telecommunications provider" as defined by this chapter shall
register with the city within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this
chapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the city, provided, however, that any telecommunications
retailer that has filed a return pursuant to subsection
3-8-4C of this chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this section.
   B.   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the city
pursuant to subsection A of this section has an affirmative duty to submit an
amended registration form or current return as required by subsection
3-8-4C of this chapter, as the case may be, to the city within thirty (30) days
from the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by
the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return
on file with the city. (Ord. 1997-8, 4-14-1998)
3-8-3: FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   A city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1.0 percent 1
of all gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service
addresses within the city for telecommunications originating or received in the
city.
   B.   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this chapter, the city infrastructure maintenance fee authorized
hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all public
rights of way within the city by telecommunications retailers. Imposition of
the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this chapter does not,
however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or imposition of any
fees otherwise authorized by law.
   C.   The city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee authorized
by this section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as set forth in
section
3-8-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 1997-8, 4-14-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. Fee may be imposed in quarter percent increments with a cap of 1.0
  percent.
3-8-4: COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the city infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
   B.   Unless otherwise approved by the city the infrastructure maintenance
fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the city not later
than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in which a bill is
issued to the customer; provided, however, that the telecommunications retailer
may retain an amount not to exceed two percent (2%) of the city infrastructure
maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for expenses incurred in
accounting for and remitting the fee.
   C.   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the city shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the city, which shall
contain such information as the city may reasonably require.
   D.   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant to
this chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the city. The charge imposed under subsection A
of this section by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this chapter
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   E.   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee has
been paid that was not due under the provisions of this chapter whether as a
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the city may request, and telecommunications
retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such credit. However, no
claim for such credit may be made more than three (3) years after the date of
the erroneous payment unless: 1) the credit is used only to offset a claim of
underpayment made by the city within the applicable statutory period of
limitations, and 2) the credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   F.   Amounts paid under this chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      1.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the telecommunications excise tax
act;
      2.   "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code;
      3.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in section 8-11-17 of the Illinois municipal code;
      4.   "Gross revenue" for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in section 2-202 of the public utilities act.
   G.   The city shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the books
and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this chapter to
determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to the
city for the city infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of the
amount of the city infrastructure maintenance fee due to the city by the
telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the city plus five percent (5%) of
the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs
incurred by the city in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed five
percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit.
Said sum shall be paid to the city within twenty one (21) days after the date
of issuance of an invoice for same.
   H.   The city may promulgate such further or additional regulations
concerning the administration and enforcement of this chapter, consistent with
its provisions, as may be required from time to time and shall notify all
telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant to section
3-8-2 of this chapter of such regulations. (Ord. 1997-8, 4-14-1998)
3-8-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Generally applicable taxes; and
   B.   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or repair
of the public rights of way, including standards relating to freestanding
towers and other structures upon the public rights of way, as provided; and
   C.   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
   D.   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning uses
or structures not located on, over, or within the right of way. (Ord. 1997-8,
4-14-1998)
3-8-6: EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the city entered into before the effective date hereof regarding
the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according to and for their
stated terms except for any fees, charges or other compensation to the extent
waived. (Ord. 1997-8, 4-14-1998)
3-8-7: PENALTIES:
Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this code. (Ord.
1997-8, 4-14-1998)
3-8-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
1997-8, 4-14-1998)
3-8-9: WAIVER:
   A.   The city hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation that
may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the city by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing city franchise, license,
or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the
city imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This waiver
shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance fee
provided for in this chapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
   B.   The city clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
city has a franchise.
   C.   The city infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this chapter
shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not less than
ninety (90) days after the city provides written notice by certified mail to
each telecommunications retailer with whom the city has an existing franchise,
license, or similar agreement that the city waives all compensation under such
existing franchise, license, or similar agreement during such time as the fee
is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the retailer and remitted
to the city. The infrastructure maintenance fee shall apply to gross charges
billed on or after the effective date as established in the preceding sentence.
(Ord. 1997-8, 4-14-1998)
CHAPTER 9
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Purpose And Scope
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
3-9-4: Dispute Resolution
3-9-5: Indemnification
3-9-6: Insurance
3-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards, and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned (or to be zoned) by the City exclusively for
commercial or industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (the Act).
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018-3, 7-10-2018)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the City
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in public
rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wire line backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
2018-3, 7-10-2018)
3-9-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
City to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be received
and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the City, together with the City's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
         a.   Application Prioritization: The first completed application shall
have priority over applications received by different applicants for
collocation on the same utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Existing Poles Or Structures: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or
replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the City
fails to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the
submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this chapter.
         c.   New Utility Poles: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the City fails to
approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this chapter.
         d.   Application Denied: The City shall deny an application which does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions contained
herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the City denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit the
revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is sent
to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The City shall
approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with
the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility
pole, the City and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the City for the initial collocation on a Municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the City and the
applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the City.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City;
or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes
or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable City Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the City by personal
delivery at the City's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Collocation Restrictions: The wireless provider shall not collocate
small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the City utility pole and on the top
of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies
with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Code Compliance: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a City ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocation small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or
category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the City may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit, variance, or administrative waiver,
whichever may be required by the City.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The City shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the City an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the City utility pole.
If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs, the
fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after the
first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility (or its successor in interest) shall remove the small
wireless facility within ninety (90) days after receipt of written notice from
the City notifying the wireless provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider (or of its successor in interest). If the small wireless facility is
not removed within ninety (90) days of such notice, the City may remove or
cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment
agreement for Municipal utility poles or through whatever actions are provided
for abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City. Such
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 2018-3, 7-10-2018)
3-9-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Hancock County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
City shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2018-3, 7-10-2018)
3-9-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the City
improvements or right-of- way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018-3, 7-10-2018)
3-9-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the City improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits
consistent with its requirements of other users of City improvements or rights-
of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirements required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self- insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. 2018-3, 7-10-2018)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
General License Provisions   1
Municipal Occupation And Use Taxes   2
Alcoholic Liquor Control   3
Retail Establishments   4
Amusements   5
Solicitors, Itinerant Merchants And  Canvassers   6
Drive-In Establishments   7
Passenger Haulers   8
Bed And Breakfast And Guesthouse  Establishments   9
Municipal Gas Use Tax   10
Municipal Electricity Tax   11
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Licenses For Business
4-1-2: Registration
4-1-3: License Fee
4-1-4: Businesses
4-1-5: License Fees Due
4-1-6: Application For License
4-1-7: Decline Of Applications
4-1-8: Terms Of Licenses
4-1-9: Transferability Of License
4-1-10: Display Of Licenses
4-1-11: Death Of Licensee
4-1-12: Expiration Of License
4-1-13: Delivery Of License
4-1-1: LICENSES FOR BUSINESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be engaged in or carry on any business,
occupation or pursuit within the city limits of the city of Nauvoo, Illinois,
without having first obtained a license therefor in the manner hereinafter
provided. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-2: REGISTRATION:
Every person engaged in any business, occupation or pursuit within the city
limits of the city of Nauvoo, Illinois, shall be required to register with the
city clerk his name, residence, occupation or business and the place where the
latter is or is to be carried on; and in the case of a company or firm, the
names of the persons composing the company or firm shall also be registered. On
each anniversary date of their initial registration thereafter, the business
must reregister, but there will be no fee due. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-3: LICENSE FEE:
Any number of persons doing business in copartnership at any one place shall be
required to pay but one license fee therefor, provided, that if more than one
kind of business or pursuit shall be conducted or carried on by the same person
or firm at the same time, a separate license fee shall be paid for each. (Ord.
2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-4: BUSINESSES:
There shall be taxed and collected from the persons engaged in or carrying on
the different branches of business, occupation or pursuits, a license fee of
ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-5: LICENSE FEES DUE:
Whoever shall engage in or carry on any business, occupation or pursuit
required to be licensed without having first obtained such license shall be
subject to a fine of one dollar ($1.00) per day for each day that the business,
occupation or pursuit shall continue without being licensed. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-
10-2002)
4-1-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license shall make a written application therefor to the
mayor stating his name, purpose for which the license is desired, for what
length of time, and the place where his business, occupation or pursuit is to
be carried on. The mayor may require such other information as the mayor deems
best for the city. An application form shall be developed. If the mayor shall
grant the application, the mayor shall endorse the same and upon the filing of
the application so endorsed with the city clerk and the payment of the license
fee, the city clerk shall issue to the applicant a license for the purpose and
time therein specified. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-7: DECLINE OF APPLICATIONS:
If in any case the mayor shall decline to grant an application for license for
any purpose or for the transfer of any license, the mayor shall communicate
such application to the council at the next regular or adjourned meeting
thereof for its action thereon. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-8: TERMS OF LICENSES:
No license shall be granted for a term longer than one year and all licenses
shall expire on May 10 next following their issuance. Every license shall be
signed by the mayor, attested to by the city clerk under the corporate seal. No
license shall be valid until signed as aforesaid, nor shall any person be
deemed to be licensed until the license has been issued to him. There shall be
a ten dollar ($10.00) renewal fee if the license is not renewed by May 10 each
year. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-9: TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
No license shall be assignable or transferable nor shall any person be
authorized to do business or act under such license but the person to whom it
is granted or any other place than that specified therein without the consent
of the mayor or city council to be certified thereon by the city clerk. No
license shall authorize any person to act under it at more than one place at
the same time or at any other time than is therein specified. Whoever shall
violate any provision of this section shall be deemed to be acting without a
license and shall be subject to the same penalty as herein prescribed for
persons doing business without a license. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSES:
Every person to whom any license may be issued shall forthwith place and keep
the same conspicuously posted in his office or place of business and any person
failing or neglecting to so place and keep his license may have his license
revoked by the city council. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-11: DEATH OF LICENSEE:
In case of the death of any person licensed under this chapter before the time
limited in his license shall have expired, his copartner (if he has any) or his
legal representative may continue to act under such license for the unexpired
term thereof subject to the conditions imposed upon the person to whom the
license was originally issued. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-12: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk by notice in writing to notify all
persons whose licenses have expired or who are required to procure a license
for their business, occupation or pursuit and are acting without a license.
Such notice shall be given by the clerk immediately upon the expiration of any
license or as soon as the fact that any person is acting without license shall
come to the clerk's knowledge. The notice shall be served by the city marshal
and may be left at the residence or place of business of the person notified.
(Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
4-1-13: DELIVERY OF LICENSE:
No license shall be delivered to any person applying therefor until all fees
due from him are paid and no person shall be considered as licensed until such
payment and the act of delivery of the license. (Ord. 2002-6, 9-10-2002)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION AND USE TAXES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Retailers' Occupation Tax
4-2-2: Service Occupation Tax
4-2-3: Use Tax
4-2-4: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies Tax
4-2-5: Hotel-Motel Tax
4-2-1: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department
of revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to a tax upon
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Ord. 1969-6, 8-4-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
4-2-2: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the city in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of three- quarters of one
percent (0.75%) of the gross receipts received from such business, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal
code.
   B.   Every serviceman required to account for municipal service occupation
tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on or before the last day of each
calendar month, the report to the state department of revenue required by
section nine of the service occupation tax act 1 .
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 1967-7, 8-1967,
eff. 9-1-1967)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
4-2-3: USE TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions of paragraph 8-
11-6 of the Illinois municipal code upon the privilege of using in the city any
item of personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail from a
retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agent of Illinois
government. The tax shall be at the rate of one percent (1%) of the selling
price of such tangible property, with selling price to have the meaning as
defined in the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955 1 .
   B.   Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois department of revenue for
all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued. (Ord. 1975-2,
4-7-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
4-2-4: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES TAX:
   A.   All corporations, companies and associations not incorporated under the
laws of this state and which are engaged in the city in effecting or soliciting
fire insurance shall pay to the city treasurer, upon July 15 of each year, a
sum equal to two percent (2%) of the gross receipts of premiums received by
said corporation, company or association or their agencies or agents for
business effected or transacted for fire insurance within the city, for the
year ending July 1 preceding said dates. The sum above named shall be a tax or
license fee upon all such corporations, companies or associations transacting
such business within the city.
   B.   Every person acting as agent or otherwise for or upon behalf of such
corporation, company or association shall, on or before July 15 of each and
every year, render to the city clerk a full, true and just account verified by
oath, of all the premiums which during the year ending on July 1 of each year,
shall have been received by him or any other person for him in behalf of said
corporation, company or association, and shall fully and specifically set out
in said report the amount or amounts received as premiums for fire insurance.
   C.   The said agent or agents shall also at the time of the making of the
above mentioned report pay to the city treasurer two percent (2%) upon the
gross receipts of such corporations, companies or associations, obtained in
premiums for effecting fire insurance in the city as specified aforesaid.
   D.   If such account be not rendered on or before the day herein designated
for that purpose, or if the above mentioned rates for the said tax or license
fee shall remain unpaid after that day, it shall be unlawful for any such
corporation, company or association to transact any business of fire insurance
in the city until the requirements hereof have been fully complied with;
nevertheless, this provision shall in no way affect the validity of any risk
that may be taken in violation thereof, between such corporation, company or
association, and the person so insured.
   E.   If any such corporation, company or association shall fail to render
the account or report herein designated by the day required by ordinance, or if
the above mentioned rates, as a tax or license fee, shall remain unpaid after
the day designated, being July 15, every such corporation, company or
association shall forfeit and pay to the city the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00), upon conviction, for each and every offense, and in addition to such
penalty, the city shall recover in an action in its name for its use against
such corporation, company or association so failing to make such report, or pay
such license fee or tax, the full amount of said license fee or tax, which
would be due under the provisions hereof.
   F.   Any and all sums so received under the provisions hereof shall be paid
to the city treasurer for the fire department of the city, and shall be kept by
the latter as a fund separate and apart from other funds in his hands, and
shall be used for the maintenance, use and benefit of the fire department of
the city. (Ord. 143, 2-4-1918)
4-2-5: HOTEL-MOTEL TAX:
   A.   Purpose: Under this section, the city may exercise its home rule powers
to impose and collect taxes upon the use and privilege of renting, leasing, or
letting a hotel room within the city. (Ord. 2009-3, 9-8-2009)
   B.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The terms include inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses and apartment houses.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the rights to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel or motel for any purpose, or the right to the use
or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms, including rooms that
are properly known as "bed and breakfast" rooms for occupancy purposes.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel or motel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms in a hotel or motel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, or a receiver, executor,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
RENT OR RENTAL: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room or
rooms in a hotel or motel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
   C.   Application Of Provisions: This section shall apply to any hotel or
motel operated within the boundaries of the City. (Ord. 1985-3, 4-7-1986)
   D.   Tax Imposed; Rate And Allocation:
      1.   Tax Rate:
         a.   General Tax: A General Tax of six percent (6%) of the gross
rental receipts is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of
renting, leasing, or letting of a room in a hotel or motel within the City;
however, excluded from said gross rental receipts are the proceeds of any such
renting, leasing, or letting to permanent residents of said hotel or motel, as
previously defined in this section.
         b.   Infrastructure Improvement Tax: In addition to the General Tax
imposed in subsection D1a of this section (and subject to the same exclusion),
an Infrastructure Tax of one percent (1%) of the gross rental receipts shall be
levied. Before March 15, 2012, and before March 15 of each subsequent year, the
City Council and the Hotel-Motel Board shall review the Hotel-Motel Taxes, and
the Council shall thereafter decide whether a change in the Infrastructure
Improvement Tax rate is necessary. Any new rate shall become effective on May 1
of that year. The rate may be changed by no more than one percent (1%) each
year, with the total Infrastructure Tax not to exceed three percent (3%) of the
gross rental receipts. (Ord. 2010-9, 2-8-2011)
         c.   Allocation: The amount of the General Tax shall be allocated
fifty percent (50%) to the Hotel-Motel Tax Board, up to and including seventy
thousand dollars ($70,000.00) per year; any amount over one hundred forty
thousand dollars ($140,000.00) collected from the General Tax shall be
allocated to the City. If the City collects more than one hundred forty
thousand dollars ($140,000.00) from the General Tax in a given year, the City
Council, at the end of that year, may allocate additional money to the Hotel-
Motel Tax Board. Those persons who are subject to General Taxes and Improvement
Taxes may reimburse themselves for that tax liability by separately stating the
taxes as additional charges to the gross rental charged. (Ord. 2018-4, 7-10-
2018)
   E.   Books And Records:
      1.   Every person engaged in the business of renting, leasing, or letting
rooms in a hotel or motel within the City shall keep a separate book or record
of his business as an operator, such that said separate book or record shall
reflect the rents and occupancies taxable under this section as to each
transaction, including those transactions for which no tax is imposed. Failure
by an operator to keep a record of the nontaxable rental receipts shall have
his tax liability computed as if the entire proceeds are taxable hereunder.
      2.   The City Treasurer, or any other person designated as a
representative of the City, may enter the premises of any hotel or motel to
inspect and examine its books and records in order to effectuate the proper
administration of this chapter and to assure the enforcement of the collection
of the imposed tax. No person shall prevent, hinder, or interfere with the City
Treasurer or other representative in the discharge of his duties under this
chapter. (Ord. 2009-3, 9-8-2009)
   F.   Tax Returns:
      1.   Returns Filed: Each person engaged in the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel or motel in the City shall file a return
with the City Treasurer stating:
         a.   The name of the operator;
         b.   The operator's residence address and address of the principal
place of business (if that is a different address) from which he engages in the
business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel or motel in the City;
         c.   Total amount of rental receipts received by him during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms during such
preceding calendar month;
         d.   Total amount of receipts received by him during the preceding
month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent residents during such
preceding calendar month;
         e.   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts
allowed by this section;
         f.   Gross rental receipts which were received by him during the
preceding calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         g.   The amount of tax due;
         h.   Such other reasonable information as the City may require.
      2.   Final Return: In the event that any operator or operators cease to
engage in the kind of business which would make them responsible for the filing
of a return under this section, such operator shall file a "final return" under
this section not more than one month after the discontinuance of such business.
      3.   Separate Returns: In the event that a person has or owns more than
one business covered by this section, then in that event such person shall file
a separate return for each business, and shall not file a single return
covering all of said businesses located within the City.
      4.   Execution Of Return: In the event the operator is an individual
entity, then in that event the return referred to above shall be executed by
the owner or one of the owners of said entity. In the event that the operator
is a corporation, then in that event the return shall be filed on behalf of the
said corporation and signed by the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer, or by a properly accredited agent of said corporation. In the event
that the entity is a partnership, said return shall be executed by one of the
full partners of said partnership. (Ord. 1985-3, 4-7-1986)
   G.   Payment Of Tax; Delinquencies:
      1.   The operator shall pay his tax liability to the City within thirty
(30) days after the end of each calendar month.
The tax referred to hereinabove shall be paid to the Nauvoo City Treasurer at
the time of the filing of each return on a monthly basis, and the full amount
of tax imposed shall be paid. Said payment of tax, in no event, shall be after
the thirtieth day of the month following the month of taxation. (Ord. 1995-4,
7-11-1995)
      2.   Failure of an operator to file a return within thirty (30) days
after the termination of the month of taxation shall result in a penalty
assessed by the City and against said operator in the amount of ten dollars
($10.00). Failure of the operator to pay the tax assessed within thirty (30)
days after termination of the taxing month shall result in a penalty of an
additional five percent (5%) of the amount due. It is understood by this
section that the penalties referred to in this subsection shall be cumulative,
and said penalties shall occur in addition to such other penalties as this
section and Illinois law allow. (Ord. 1985-3, 4-7-1986; amd. Ord. 2009-3, 9-8-
2009)
   H.   Lease Bartering: In the event an operator or operators shall receive
barter in lieu of money in connection with the renting, leasing or letting of
rooms in the normal course of his business, he shall include the value of said
barter and pay the tax subject hereunder, as if the bartering for said room did
not occur. (Ord. 1985-3, 4-7-1986)
   I.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this section
may be punished in accordance with the authority granted to the City under
article VII, section 6 of the Illinois Constitution.
      2.   Any person who is found guilty and convicted of wilfully failing to
pay, collect, report, and transmit the required Hotel- Motel Tax to the City in
accordance with the terms of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) for the first offense, and not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second and each
subsequent offense in any one (1) 180-day period; provided, however, that all
actions that seek the imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal
actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure 1 . A
separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon
which said person shall continue such violation, or permit such violation to
exist, after notification of the violation. (Ord. 2009-3, 9-8-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Compliance Required
4-3-2: Definition
4-3-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
4-3-4: License Required
4-3-5: License Classifications; Fees
4-3-6: License Application Or Renewal
4-3-7: License Issuance, Restrictions
4-3-8: Conditions Of License
4-3-9: Revocation Of License
4-3-10: Penalty
4-3-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor within
the city except and under the conditions in this chapter provided. (Ord. 228,
3-5-1934)
4-3-2: DEFINITION:
The term "alcoholic liquor" as used in this chapter shall be held to mean any
spirits, wine, beer, alcohol or other liquor containing more than one-half of
one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage purposes. (Ord.
228, 3-5-1934)
4-3-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
As provided by an act of the state of Illinois entitled "an act relating to
alcoholic liquor", approved January 31, 1934 1 , the mayor is and shall be the
liquor control commissioner in and for the city, and as provided by said act,
such commissioner may appoint a person or persons to assist him as such
commissioner. (Ord. 228, 3-5-1934)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
4-3-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail within the corporate
limits of the city any alcoholic liquor without having a retail dealer's
license therefor. (Ord. 228, 3-5-1934)
4-3-5: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS; FEES:
Class A license shall authorize the retail sale on the premises specified in
the license, of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises, as well as
other retail sales of such liquor. The annual fee shall be eight hundred
dollars ($800.00).
Class B license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquors for
consumption on the premises where sold in a restaurant or hotel and then only
when served with meals. The annual fee for such license shall be eight hundred
dollars ($800.00).
Class C license shall authorize the retail sales of beer and Nauvoo wine, by
bottle, can or package not to be consumed on the premises. The annual fee for
such license shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 1974-8, 11-4-1974)
Class D license shall authorize a winery manufacturer's retail liquor license
which gives the right to retail sales of wine, by bottle, can or package, not
to be consumed on the premises. The annual fee for such license shall be two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Winery manufacturer may obtain a special event
license for serving wine by the glass on the premises for a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per special event. The special event shall not be more than
three (3) days in length and must be at least four (4) days apart. (Ord. 1993-
4, 11-9-1993)
Class E license shall be a special use permit license and shall authorize the
license retailer to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for consumption at
special events off the site of the license retailer as part of a festival,
fair, picnic, or other special or theme event. This license shall allow a
license retailer to transfer a portion of its alcoholic liquor inventory from
its retailed licensed premises to the premises specified in the special use
permit license and to sell or offer for sale at retail only in the premises
specified in the license hereby created, the transferred alcoholic liquor for
use or consumption but not for resale. The licensed retailer shall provide
dramshop liability insurance in the maximum limits and have local authority
approval. The special use permit license may be granted for a duration of one
to fifteen (15) days with a maximum of fifteen (15) days per location in any
twelve (12) month period. The fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00).
Class F license shall be a special event retailer's license (not for profit)
and shall permit the licensee to purchase alcoholic liquors from an Illinois
licensed distributor and shall allow the licensee to sell and offer for sale,
at retail, alcoholic liquors for use or consumption but not for resale in any
form and only at the location and on the specific dates designated for the
special event in the license. This license will apply to fraternal,
educational, political, civic, religious and not for profit organizations that
maintain the responsibility for serving and selling alcoholic beverages at
special events. The licensee shall provide dramshop liability insurance in the
maximum limits and have local authority approval. The license may not exceed
fifteen (15) days in any twelve (12) month period. The fee for such license
shall be five dollars ($5.00). (Ord. 1996-2, 6-11-1996)
All the fees so paid to the city clerk as such local licenses fee collector
shall be immediately turned over by him to the city treasurer. (Ord. 1977-3, 4-
4-1977; amd. 1989 Code)
4-3-6: LICENSE APPLICATION OR RENEWAL:
An applicant for a license or renewal thereof from the city of Nauvoo shall be
made to the mayor as the liquor control commissioner in and for the city and
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or the duly authorized agent,
under oath, and shall contain the following information and statements:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the person entitled to share in the
profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit, or club, the date
of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and
address of such person and his nominee and the name and address of the
registered agent for the corporation for the state of Illinois and a
certificate of good standing from the Illinois secretary of state's office;
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization;
   C.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
   D.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license;
   E.   A statement that the applicant in the case of an individual; in the
case of copartnership, the person entitled to share in the profit thereof; or
in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club, the officers and directors
and majority shareholders have never been convicted of a felony and are not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any manner or thing contained in
this code;
   F.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor;
   G.   The applicant will not violate any of the laws of the state of Illinois
or the United States or any provision of this chapter or provisions of this
code;
   H.   Whether the application is for an original or renewal license.
If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm or association,
club or corporation, then the application shall be signed under oath by at
least two (2) members of such partnership, firm or association or club or the
present secretary of such corporation. (Ord. 1994-3, 8-9-1994)
4-3-7: LICENSE ISSUANCE, RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Upon the approval of such applicant, the mayor, as such commissioner,
shall issue a license under his hand and seal, the same to be countersigned by
the city clerk and a proper record thereof kept by both said mayor, as such
commissioner, and by the city clerk. No license shall be issued until the fees
provided therefor have been paid and all licenses shall expire on April 30
next, after the issuance thereof. In case a license is issued after May 1, then
the fee shall be prorated for the part of such year for which the license is
issued. (Ord. 228, 3-5-1934; amd. Ord. 87-1, 5-4-1987; 1991)
   B.   No license shall be issued to a person:
      1.   Who is not a resident of the city.
      2.   Who is not of good moral and character.
      3.   Who has been convicted of a felony.
      4.   Who has been convicted of being a keeper or is keeping a house of
ill fame.
      5.   Who has been convicted of pandering, or other crime or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality.
      6.   Who does not own or have a lease for the premises for which his
license is sought, for the full period of time for which the license is issued.
(Ord. 228, 3-5-1934)
   C.   The number of places to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall be
limited to eight (8) and only eight (8) places shall be licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail in the city. (Ord. 1977-3, 4-4-1977; amd. Ord. 1983-
2, 5-2-1983)
4-3-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Sale:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any
alcoholic liquor within the city between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day other than Sunday, and between
the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on
Sunday for packaged liquor and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on Sunday for liquor by the drink. The
sale of alcoholic liquor at retail by licensees in the city on Sunday, in
strict pursuance of the conditions and restrictions in this chapter contained,
is hereby expressed. (Ord. 2004-6, 9-14-2004)
      2.   On New Year's Eve, alcoholic liquors may be sold at retail until two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following morning.
      3.   There shall be no consumption of alcoholic liquor on any portion of
the licensed premises after thirty (30) minutes from the time of closing as
hereinabove stated. (Ord. 1994-3, 8-9-1994)
   B.   License Displayed: Every license shall be hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   C.   Sales On Credit: No person shall sell or offer to sell any alcoholic
liquor at retail on credit or on a passbook or in exchange for any goods,
wares, merchandise or for services rendered or services to be rendered.
   D.   Duplicate Licenses: No license shall be issued for the same premises
where a license of either class has been issued and is in force.
   E.   Hindrance Of View: No curtain, screen or other contrivance shall be
permitted in or near windows or doors which hinder or prevent a clear view of
the interior of any licensed premises from the street at all times.
   F.   First, Ground Floor: No license shall be issued for the sale of
alcoholic liquor as herein provided, except in a room or rooms adjacent to a
public street that is on the first or ground floor thereof.
   G.   Minor; Drunkard: It shall be unlawful within the city to sell or
deliver any alcoholic liquor to any minor, drunkard or incompetent person.
   H.   Licensed Premises Only: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale
by any licensee, licensed under this chapter, any intoxicating liquor except on
the premises described in such license. (Ord. 228, 3-5-1934; amd. 1991)
4-3-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The mayor, as such liquor control commissioner, shall have full power and
authority to revoke any retail liquor dealer's license for any violation of any
provision of this chapter, or for any violation of any state law pertaining to
the sale of alcoholic liquor. A conviction for a second violation under this
chapter shall automatically cancel and revoke the license of such person as
convicted, and he shall not be permitted thereafter to procure a license
hereunder. (Ord. 228, 3-5-1934; amd. 1989 Code)
4-3-10: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 228,
3-5-1934; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Tobacco, Cigars And Cigarettes
4-4-1: TOBACCO, CIGARS AND CIGARETTES:
   A.   License: It shall be unlawful for any person to open or keep open any
house or place within the corporate limits of the city for the sale of tobacco,
cigars and cigarettes without securing a license from the city clerk therefor.
Such license shall be effective at the beginning of the fiscal year. If any
person shall be desirous of taking out a license for the sale of tobacco,
cigars and cigarettes, he shall petition the city clerk for the same. (Ord.
199, 5-2-1927; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Fee: The license fee for the sale of tobacco, cigars and cigarettes per
annum, shall be the sum of twelve dollars ($12.00). (Ord. 283, 4-2-1945)
   C.   Revocation Of License: The city council shall have the power to revoke
any license issued by virtue hereof whenever it shall appear to the council
that the licensee has violated this section or any police or health regulations
of the city, or the state of Illinois.
   D.   Police Control: Every such place licensed as aforesaid shall be under
the police control of the city marshal, and all lawful police and health
officers.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who shall open or keep open any house or place
within the corporate limits of the city for the sale of any of the
abovementioned articles without first having procured a license as herein
provided shall forfeit and pay not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each and every day such house or place shall be
kept open. (Ord. 199, 5-2-1927)
CHAPTER 5
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Public Shows And Entertainments
4-5-2: Shooting Galleries
4-5-3: Shooting Matches
4-5-1: PUBLIC SHOWS AND ENTERTAINMENTS:
   A.   License: It shall be unlawful for any person, within the limits of the
city, to exhibit any public show, menagerie or circus, or to have any other
public show or exhibition for profit or gain, unless such person shall first
procure a license therefor as hereinafter provided for. Provided, however, that
no scientific or chemical lecture nor any musical concert, shall be considered
a public exhibition or show within the meaning and provisions of this section,
and provided further, that amateur and theatrical corps organized in the city,
of citizens of the city, shall be exempt from payment for any license
whatsoever.
   B.   Application For License: Any person desiring to procure a license for
any such public show, menagerie or other public entertainment shall make
application therefor to the mayor, in writing, and shall specify the nature or
character of such show, entertainment, menagerie or exhibition, and also the
number of exhibitions wished to be given.
   C.   Fees: Such applicant shall pay unto the mayor the following rates,
according to the character of the show, entertainment or exhibition:
 
For all shows, entertainments or        Not less than $1.00 nor more than
exhibitions, other than a menagerie or  $10.00, such license to cover not more
circus, or combination of menagerie and than 2 exhibitions, even though 2 be
circus                                  given on the same day
For a menagerie                         Not less than $5.00 nor more than
                                        $20.00
For a circus                            Not less than $10.00 nor exceeding
                                        $50.00
                                        Not less than $10.00 nor more than
A combination of menagerie and circus   $50.00, in either case not to cover
                                        more than 2 exhibitions
 
   D.   Issuance: The mayor shall use sound discretion in fixing the amount of
license, and upon the payment of the amount fixed, he shall give such applicant
a receipt therefor and endorse and make his order to the clerk to issue such
license, endorsing on said order the amount paid thereon, whereupon the clerk
shall issue the license to the applicant and file said order so endorsed in his
office. Such license shall be in form and substance as follows:
Whereas                      hath on this day made application to the Mayor of
the City of Nauvoo for leave to exhibit                      in said City and
has paid unto the Mayor the sum fixed by him; and, whereas, the Mayor has
authorized this license to issue. Therefore, in consideration of the premises,
this is to authorize and permit said                      to hold and give such
exhibitions on the      day of           , 19  , not however exceeding twice
under this authority.
In testimony whereof I                     , Clerk of the City of Nauvoo,
Illinois, have hereunto set my hand and affixed the Seal of said City this    
day of           , 19  .
[L.S.]                            City Clerk           
   E.   Penalty: Any person who shall hold or give any exhibition such as is
mentioned or described in this section, without first procuring a license
therefor, shall forfeit and pay unto the city a sum not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   F.   Offenses:
      1.   No obscene, immoral or indecent exhibition or show shall be allowed
or permitted in the city.
      2.   If any person shall publicly exhibit any show or exhibition of an
immoral, obscene or indecent character, with or without license, such person
shall forfeit and pay unto the city a sum not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   G.   Mayor Guilty Of Offense: If the mayor shall knowingly order the issuing
of any such license for any obscene, immoral or indecent exhibition or show, he
shall be guilty of an offense and shall forfeit and pay unto the city not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for every such offense. (Ord. XXVII, 10-7-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
4-5-2: SHOOTING GALLERIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to open or conduct any place within
the limits of the city, for the purpose of shooting at any target, or other
thing, without first obtaining a license for such purpose as hereinafter
provided for.
   B.   When any person shall desire to open a shooting gallery for the purpose
set forth in the preceding subsection, such person shall make application in
writing to the city council, which shall set forth the name or names of such
applicant, together with the location and a description of the room or place to
be occupied and used for such purpose. (Ord. XXIV, 9-22-1899)
   C.   It shall be the duty of the city council, on such application being
made, to inquire into the qualification of such applicant as to such business,
and as to the location and fitness of the room or place in which such applicant
desires to conduct such business, and if it shall appear that such applicant is
a fit person to conduct such business, and such room or place is so located and
arranged as not likely to disturb the peace or result in the injury of any
person, they may grant a license to such applicant. For such license such
applicant shall pay unto the city treasurer the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per annum, the same to be payable quarterly in advance. (Ord. XXIV, 9-22-1899;
amd. 1989 Code)
   D.   Any person who shall open or conduct any place in the city for the
purpose mentioned in this section, without having procured a license therefor
as provided for by this section, shall forfeit and pay unto the city not less
than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each day he
shall be in default. (Ord. XXIV, 9-22-1899)
4-5-3: SHOOTING MATCHES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or maintain what is
commonly called a shooting match, for the purpose of shooting at glass balls or
other objects or to engage in any game as the throwing of balls at targets or
other objects, or any other device whatsoever for the purpose of profit or
gain, within the limits of the city, without first obtaining a license for such
purpose as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Whenever any person wishes to conduct or maintain a shooting match or
any game as described in the foregoing subsection, such person shall make
application to the mayor, designating the place and time where and when such
shooting match or other game or device is to be conducted or maintained.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the mayor, upon such application being made, to
take into consideration the locality of such place as designated by such person
making such application, and if it shall appear that there is no reason to
reject such application or refuse to grant such license, the mayor may grant
the same; provided, that if it shall appear to the mayor that it would be to
the injury or detriment of any person, or any person shall object to the
issuance of such license, the same shall not be issued. (Ord. XXV, 9-15-1899)
   D.   Any person whose application may be approved by the mayor shall pay to
the city treasurer the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) per day, whereupon the
city clerk, on the order of the mayor and proper evidence of the payment of
such sum, shall issue such license. (Ord. XXV, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
   E.   Any person who shall conduct or maintain a shooting match or other game
or device as described in subsection A of this section, in the city, without
first procuring a license therefor, shall, on conviction, forfeit and pay to
the city not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each offense. (Ord. XXV, 9-15-1899)
CHAPTER 6
SOLICITORS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definition
4-6-2: License Required
4-6-3: Application For License
4-6-4: Registration Fee And Term
4-6-5: Consent Of Occupant
4-6-6: Display Of License And Hours
4-6-7: Location Restrictions
4-6-8: Grant Or Refusal Of License
4-6-9: Acts Prohibited
4-6-10: Revocation Of License
4-6-11: Penalty
4-6-12: Exceptions
4-6-13: Special Event Licenses
4-6-1: DEFINITION:
A "solicitor" or "itinerant merchant" shall be deemed to be any person that is
temporarily engaged in the business of selling, bartering or exchanging, or
offering for sale, barter or exchange any goods, wares or merchandise within
the city of Nauvoo, Illinois, who does not own or rent a store, within the city
of Nauvoo, for a period of six (6) months or longer. A "canvasser" shall be
deemed to be any person that is temporarily engaged in the solicitation of
votes, orders, subscriptions, or the like or conducting a survey or poll. (Ord.
2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to act as or to engage in business as an
itinerant merchant, solicitor or canvasser within the city boundaries as it
relates to the sale of goods, wares or merchandise, or the solicitation of
orders, sales, subscriptions or business of any kind, or the seeking of
information or donations without first having registered and obtained a license
at the office of the city clerk as hereinafter provided. For an interim
merchant and solicitor, a separate license shall be required for each location.
(Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
It shall be unlawful for any person, including residents of Nauvoo, to act as
or to engage in business as an itinerant merchant, solicitor or canvasser
within the city boundaries as it relates to the sale of goods, wares or
merchandise in outdoor temporary facilities without first having registered and
obtained a license at the office of the city clerk as hereinafter provided. A
resident of the city for more than six (6) months shall not have to pay the
registration fee. (Ord. 2001-14, 3-14-2002)
4-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to secure a solicitor's or itinerant merchant's, or
canvasser's license shall apply therefor in writing over his signature to the
city clerk on forms to be provided by the city, with such applicant completing
all information required on the application including, but in no way limited
to, the following:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant with complete identification.
   B.   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation by whom
employed and the length of service with employer.
   C.   The names of manufacturers of all products or the organization which is
being represented.
   D.   The length of service or solicitation intended by the applicant.
   E.   The proposed method of operation and the nature or character of service
or solicitation intended by the applicant.
   F.   The nature or character of the goods, wares, merchandise or services to
be offered by the applicant, or in general the nature of the business of the
applicant within the city.
   G.   A photograph in a minimum size of two inches by two inches (2" x 2")
full face as to the person or persons who will be soliciting or selling within
the city limits and such other credentials and evidence of good moral character
as may be reasonably required by the city clerk and mayor.
   H.   Must furnish a current Illinois sales tax permit.
   I.   Must provide proof of insurance including liability insurance of a
minimum of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence. (Ord.
2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-4: REGISTRATION FEE AND TERM:
The registration fee and term must be paid to the city clerk prior to any
solicitation or sale and shall be as follows:
 
Term               Fee
1 year             $350.00
180 days           300.00
30 days            200.00
3 consecutive days 50.00
 
The one year license will begin on January 1 and will end on December 31 of
each calendar year. The one hundred eighty (180) day, the thirty (30) day, and
three (3) consecutive day licenses will run from the date of issuance. (Ord.
2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-5: CONSENT OF OCCUPANT:
Any solicitation, sale or other barter or exchange of goods and services at the
home or residence of a resident of the city shall be deemed to be unlawful
unless such selling or peddling has been done at the express invitation or
consent of the occupant of the premises. (Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND HOURS:
The original license must be displayed in plain view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises at all times; business hours must be between eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-7: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
All solicitors and itinerant merchants shall set up and conduct business or
sales only in areas designated by the city or upon privately owned property
that is zoned for commercial use; there will be no business conducted or sales
in the city parking lot, city park or on sidewalks; and temporary signage will
be allowed but must comply with the city's zoning ordinance 1  and the signage
requirements therein. (Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
4-6-8: GRANT OR REFUSAL OF LICENSE:
It shall be in the sole discretion of the mayor of the city to grant or reject
any application for license as stated in this chapter, which said grant or
refusal shall not be rejected by the city council except by the vote of a
majority of those members present at the next regular city council meeting
called upon to review the application denial. (Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-9: ACTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to whom a license has been issued
hereunder, to force his way into a home or place of business for the purpose of
solicitation against the will of the person in charge thereof, or to make a
nuisance of himself to the occupant or occupants thereof; and further, in case
any such person so soliciting shall be requested to leave any premises where he
is soliciting business by the person in charge thereof, he shall leave such
premises promptly. It shall be unlawful for any person soliciting business
under a license, issued hereunder, to resort to any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation in connection with such solicitation; or to solicit a sale of
anything not specified in his application for a license or to violate any laws
of the federal, state, county, or city governments. (Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license may be revoked by the mayor because of any violation by the
registrant of this chapter or any of the provisions of this code, or any state
or federal law or whenever it has been found by the mayor that the applicant
has failed to accurately provide information requested in the registration
statement, which said revocation shall remain in full force and effect until
such time as a majority of the members present of the city council at the next
regular meeting shall have voted upon said revocation. Any revocation shall be
in addition to any fine imposed hereunder. (Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, unless otherwise provided,
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, with a separate offense to be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues to occur.
(Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-12: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions herein shall not apply to officers or employees of the city,
county, state or federal government or any subdivisions thereof when on
official business; to persons selling fresh fruits or vegetables of their own
property; children twelve (12) years and under selling lemonade and Kool Aid on
their legal guardians' real estate; newspaper vendors; garage sales and special
events sponsored by the Nauvoo School District and the Grape Festival.
Nonprofit organizations shall be required to file an application but shall not
have to pay the registration fee. (Ord. 2000-13, 7-10-2001)
4-6-13: SPECIAL EVENT LICENSES:
For special events held within the city, any person engaged in the business as
an itinerant merchant, solicitor or canvasser within the city having a license
as hereinabove set forth or any person that does not have a business within the
city that has been established for at least six (6) months prior to the special
event that sells items using outdoor temporary facilities shall be required to
apply for a special event license if they wish to engage in business during the
special event. The mayor shall determine and declare the special events. There
will be a maximum of ten (10) special event licenses issued per event. If more
than ten (10) applications are received, a lottery will be held among the
completed and current applications then on file. Applications for a special
event license shall be received at least forty five (45) days prior to the
special event. The provisions set forth in sections
 4-6-1 through
4-6-12 of this chapter shall apply, except section
4-6-4 of this chapter, the registration fee and term for a special event
license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per day for the length of the special
event with a minimum of fifty dollars ($50.00) and they must pay for the entire
special event. The term shall be as designated by the mayor to coincide with
the special event schedule.
All displays and exhibits shall be no larger than ten feet by twenty feet (10'
x 20') for the above fee and shall be at least four feet (4') back from the
edge of the sidewalk or public right of way to the front edge of the display or
exhibit. The above fee is for the ten foot by twenty foot (10' x 20') area. If
more area is needed, each additional linear foot over twenty feet (20') will be
one dollar ($1.00) per linear foot per day. (Ord. 2001-14, 3-14-2002)
CHAPTER 7
DRIVE IN ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definition
4-7-2: Restrictions
4-7-3: Sign Posted
4-7-4: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINITION:
A "drive in restaurant", within the meaning of this chapter, shall be deemed to
be any restaurant where meals, sandwiches, ice cream, or other food is served
directly to or is permitted to be consumed by patrons in automobiles,
motorcycles or other vehicles parked on the premises. (Ord. 1965-2, 6-7-1965)
4-7-2: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person while on or adjacent to the
premises of a drive in restaurant to race the motor of any car or motor
vehicle, to suddenly stop or start any car or motor vehicle, or to make or
cause to be made, any other loud or unseemly noise. It shall also be unlawful
for any other person parked on the premises of such drive in restaurant to blow
or cause to be blown any automobile horn or motorcycle horn at any time while
so parked.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any patron or other person on the premises of
a drive in restaurant, whether in or out of an automobile, to drink any beer or
other intoxicating liquor unless purchased on the premises. It shall be
unlawful for a group of three (3) or more persons to congregate and linger at
any location on the premises of a drive in restaurant other than in the
restaurant building or in a legally parked motor vehicle or at tables placed
outside such restaurant for the consumption of food purchased from such drive
in restaurant. Persons so congregating and lingering shall be deemed guilty of
loitering. No person shall drive a motor vehicle onto the premises of a drive
in restaurant and then from said premises without parking such motor vehicle,
unless there is no unoccupied parking space available on said premises.
   C.   It shall also be unlawful for any person to leave any unoccupied motor
vehicle on any drive in restaurant parking lot and to leave the premises
thereof except with the knowledge and consent of the operator of such drive in
restaurant. (Ord. 1965-2, 6-7-1965)
4-7-3: SIGN POSTED:
It shall be the duty and obligation of the drive in restaurant operator to post
on the premises in a conspicuous location one or more signs bearing the
following legend:
CRUISING IN OR CONGREGATING AND LINGERING OUTSIDE OF A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
UNLAWFUL. NO UNOCCUPIED VEHICLE MAY BE LEFT ON THESE PREMISES WITHOUT THE
CONSENT OF THE RESTAURANT OPERATOR.
(Ord. 1965-2, 6-7-1965)
4-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), at the discretion
of the court. (Ord. 1965-2, 6-7-1965; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PASSENGER HAULERS
SECTION:
4-8-1: License Requirements
4-8-2: Application And Fee
4-8-3: Character Of Applicant
4-8-4: Investigation
4-8-5: Rate Schedules Displayed
4-8-6: Exceptions
4-8-7: Violation
4-8-8: Inspection
4-8-9: Insurance
4-8-10: Name Of Business On Vehicle
4-8-11: Inspection By Owners Or Operators
4-8-12: Traffic Rules And Unlawful Use
4-8-13: License Not Assignable
4-8-14: Approval And Renewal
4-8-1: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
No person, firm or corporation shall conduct, maintain, operate, manage, carry
on or engage in the business of carrying, hauling, or transporting passengers
within the city limits of the city of Nauvoo for hire without first having
secured a license therefor. Applications for such licenses shall be made in
writing to the city collector on a form supplied by the city collector and
approved by the mayor and city council. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993)
4-8-2: APPLICATION AND FEE:
Before any license shall be granted or issued the applicant shall apply for one
of the types of licenses listed below and comply with the terms outlined
therein:
   A.   Sightseeing/Shuttle Service: A business that provides tours of the city
of Nauvoo in a motorized vehicle with a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of less than
ten thousand (10,000) pounds and a seating capacity of less than sixteen (16)
persons including the driver as determined by the manufacturer. The driver must
show proof of a minimum of a class D operator's license, and shall have no less
than three (3) years' driving experience. The vehicle must display a current
and valid safety test sticker issued by a state certified safety test
inspection station which shall be renewed on a semiannual basis. The motor
vehicle used in this capacity shall display current Illinois registration and
it shall be the responsibility of the owner to provide proof of insurance for
the type of business engaged in. The sightseeing/shuttle service shall pay a
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per seat per year per vehicle on a nonprorated
basis and is valid from May 1 through April 30, and the license shall be
displayed in the front windshield area of the vehicle. A sightseeing/shuttle
service is not restricted to the currently established bus route for the city
of Nauvoo.
A business holding a valid business license issued by the city of Nauvoo and
provides a shuttle service to guests incidental to their regular business and
at no cost or fee shall be exempt from paying the ten dollar ($10.00) per seat
fee, however, all other requirements shall apply.
   B.   Shuttle Service With Seating Capacity Of Sixteen But Less Than Twenty
Five: A business that picks up and drops off passengers at multiple locations
throughout the city of Nauvoo utilizing a motorized vehicle with gross vehicle
weight (GVW) of at least ten thousand (10,000) pounds but less than twenty six
thousand one (26,001) pounds and a seating capacity of less than twenty five
(25) persons including the driver as determined by the manufacturer. The driver
must have a current and a valid CDL with a passenger hauler endorsement, a
current and valid medical card, and comply with all requirements established
for this classification of license as outlined by the federal motor carrier
safety administration, and the Illinois secretary of state. Each vehicle
providing a shuttle service must display a current and valid safety test
sticker issued by a state certified safety test inspection station which shall
be renewed on a semiannual basis. The shuttle service must pay a fee of ten
dollars ($10.00) per seat per year per vehicle on a nonprorated basis and is
valid from May 1 through April 30, and the license shall be displayed in the
front windshield area of the vehicle. This type of shuttle service is not
restricted to the currently established bus route for the city of Nauvoo.
   C.   Shuttle Service With Seating Capacity Over Twenty Five: A business that
picks up and drops off passengers at multiple locations throughout the city of
Nauvoo utilizing a motorized vehicle with a gross vehicle weight of twenty six
thousand one (26,001) or more and a seating capacity of twenty five (25)
persons or more including the driver as determined by the manufacturer. The
driver must have a current and valid CDL with the appropriate endorsements, a
current and valid medical card, and comply with all requirements established by
the federal motor carrier safety administration and the Illinois secretary of
state. Each vehicle must display a current and valid safety test sticker issued
by a state certified safety test station which shall be renewed on a semiannual
basis. The shuttle service must pay a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) per seat
per year per vehicle on a nonprorated basis and is valid from May 1 through
April 30, and the license shall be displayed in the front windshield area of
the vehicle. This type of shuttle service is restricted to the currently
established bus route for the city of Nauvoo.
   D.   Completion Of Application Form: The applicant shall fully complete the
application for license in writing on the form provided for that purpose by the
city clerk.
   E.   Contents Of Application: The application shall, at a minimum, state the
name of the applicant, the intended place of business, the number of vehicles
to be operated, the designated routes of travel. If a scheduled shuttle
service, the stopping points and approximate times of arrival and departure.
   F.   Maximum Number Of Vehicles: There shall be a maximum total of eight (8)
vehicles operating within the city which can be divided between no more than
two (2) companies. Each company shall be allowed a maximum of four (4)
vehicles. (Ord. 2008-2, 7-8-2008)
4-8-3: CHARACTER OF APPLICANT:
No such license shall be issued to or held by any person who is not a person of
good character or who has been convicted of a felony nor shall such license be
issued to or held by any corporation if any officer thereof shall be ineligible
for a license under the foregoing conditions. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993)
4-8-4: INVESTIGATION:
The applicant authorizes the city of Nauvoo and any of its public officials,
employees or agents to make any investigation of the applicant as they deem
proper. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993)
4-8-5: RATE SCHEDULES DISPLAYED:
Rate schedules shall be visibly displayed at all times within the passenger
interior. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993)
4-8-6: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any vehicle(s) delivering passengers from
outside the city and not otherwise engaged in the business of the city. (Ord.
1992-8, 6-8-1993; amd. Ord. 2008-2, 7-8-2008)
4-8-7: VIOLATION:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor subject to a fine to be set by the city council and court costs and
in addition, upon conviction, the city council may, at its option, revoke any
or all licenses issued to such person. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993; amd. Ord. 2008-
2, 7-8-2008)
4-8-8: INSPECTION:
Any person owning, operating or controlling any vehicle hauling passengers for
hire within the city shall not operate any of these vehicles without first
having been inspected and issued a certificate to the effect that the vehicle
(s) passes the semiannual inspection to be performed by the city police
department or other department as designated by the mayor with approval of the
city council. The inspection shall not be limited to, but shall include, the
following areas in particular:
   A.   Foot brakes and hand or parking brakes;
   B.   Front and rear bumpers, or original manufacturer's equipment;
   C.   Spare tire inflation;
   D.   Sufficient heating and ventilation for the passenger interior;
   E.   Driver's rearview mirror;
   F.   Speedometer operation;
   G.   Windshield wiper(s);
   H.   Lights, as approved by the motor vehicle department, and passenger
compartment lights with accessible switch;
   I.   No broken or cracked glass;
   J.   Passenger seat belts;
   K.   Horn;
   L.   Muffler. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993; amd. Ord. 2008-2, 7-8-2008)
4-8-9: INSURANCE:
Prior to the commencement of operation, the licensee shall have on deposit with
the city clerk an insurance policy, policies or certificate of insurance of a
company licensed to do business in Illinois, together with a certificate from
the insurance company to the effect that said policy will not be canceled or
terminated except after ten (10) days' notice to the city. A copy of this
insurance will be forwarded to the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management
Company. Said insurance shall maintain in effect a minimum of five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) liability insurance and shall include the city
of Nauvoo as being additionally insured on this policy. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993;
amd. Ord. 2008-2, 7-8-2008)
4-8-10: NAME OF BUSINESS ON VEHICLE:
The vehicle(s) shall have the name under which the business hauling passengers
for hire is being conducted painted or otherwise imprinted on the vehicle in a
generally conspicuous and readable location in letters at least four inches
(4") in height and in color or colors contrasting with the vehicle. (Ord. 1992-
8, 6-8-1993; amd. Ord. 2008-2, 7-8-2008)
4-8-11: INSPECTION BY OWNERS OR OPERATORS:
Every vehicle owner or operator hauling passengers for hire shall make an
inspection at least once each week of all vehicles being operated and shall
keep all vehicles in proper repair and sanitary condition at all times. Any
vehicle found by the owner or operator to be unsafe or unsanitary shall have
such repairs and alterations made as may be necessary and said owner or
operator shall not operate or permit to be operated any vehicle that is unsafe
or unsanitary in hauling passengers for hire. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993; amd. Ord.
2008-2, 7-8-2008)
4-8-12: TRAFFIC RULES AND UNLAWFUL USE:
It shall be the duty of every operator to obey the bus route ordinance 1  of
the city of Nauvoo. (Ord. 2001-16, 4-9-2002; amd. Ord. 2008-2, 7-8-2008)
It shall be the duty of every operator to obey all traffic rules established by
law and it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to be used in the
perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor.
It shall be unlawful for any operator while on duty to drink any intoxicating
liquor, or to use any profane or obscene language, or to shout or call to
prospective passengers or to disturb the peace in any way. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-
1993; amd. Ord. 2008-2, 7-8-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 5 of this code.
4-8-13: LICENSE NOT ASSIGNABLE:
No license may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used as collateral or
otherwise incumbered. No person shall alter, deface, forge or counterfeit any
license issued. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993; amd. Ord. 2008-2, 7-8-2008)
4-8-14: APPROVAL AND RENEWAL:
If after due consideration of the information contained within the application,
any investigative reports and inspection reports, the mayor determines that the
application is satisfactory, he will approve the application. Thereupon, the
city collector shall notify the applicant that the application has been
approved and the license shall be signed by the mayor, attested to by the city
clerk and issued for a period of one year.
Within thirty (30) days from expiration, an application for renewal may be made
in writing to the city collector on a form supplied by the city collector and
approved by the mayor and city council. After the expiration of a license, any
person, firm or corporation shall make application as set forth hereinabove as
if no previous license had been issued. (Ord. 1992-8, 6-8-1993; amd. Ord. 2008-
2, 7-8-2008)
CHAPTER 9
BED AND BREAKFAST AND GUESTHOUSE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: License Required
4-9-3: Mandatory Inspection Report
4-9-4: Liability Insurance
4-9-5: License And Annual Fees
4-9-6: Form, And Display, Of License
4-9-7: Penalty For Violation
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT (B&B): An operator occupied residence providing
accommodations and breakfast for a charge to the public with no more than five
(5) guestrooms for rent.
GUEST HOUSE/SUITE: A private residence or other establishment normally
providing a kitchen, dining area and from one to six (6) bedrooms for a charge
to the public. Neither entity operates as a hotel, motel, or boarding house.
(Ord. 2012-5, 12-11-2012)
4-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or entity shall operate a bed and breakfast establishment or a guest
house/suite without first having obtained a required business license from the
city. A license for such establishments may not be issued until the owner has
obtained a special use permit from the city if required for zoning compliance,
a certificate of inspection, and meets the city's insurance requirements.
For the purpose of this chapter, the city of Nauvoo adopts the bed and
breakfast act of the state of Illinois ("B&B act") 1  and each B&B is required
to be in compliance with the act. To the extent that the provisions of this
chapter conflict with the provisions of the B&B act, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. (Ord. 2012-5, 12-11-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.
4-9-3: MANDATORY INSPECTION REPORT:
No license shall be issued until the following inspection report has been filed
with the city:
   A.   A basic fire and safety inspection report from the fire marshal, fire
chief, or building inspector. The inspection is based on the current fire and
life safety regulations of the state of Illinois applicable to B&Bs and guest
houses/suites, with the provisions of title 7, chapter 2 of this code, and with
the fire and life safety regulations in the most current edition of the NFPA
life safety code. Upon application, the city will consider substituting a
comparable inspection report completed by a "certified" insurance property
inspector from the owner's insurance company. If the application is approved,
the annual licensing fee will be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each year
their inspection report is accepted.
   B.   B&Bs must meet the food handling certification required by the B&B act.
   C.   A new inspection report will be required every year unless a formal
written complaint from a guest of the establishment requests an inspection
prior to the next required inspection. If more than one inspection is done
during a licensing year, the owner will pay fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
additional inspection or reinspection. If owner fails to make the required
repairs or changes within thirty (30) days of an interim inspection, the
license will be revoked. A license reinstatement fee of fifty dollars ($50.00)
will be charged for the remainder of the fiscal year when in compliance. The
penalty prescribed in this chapter will apply to any establishment operating
without a license. (Ord. 2012-5, 12-11-2012)
4-9-4: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The operator of a bed and breakfast establishment or a guest house/suite is
required to maintain a general liability insurance policy with limits of at
least five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) covering its establishment
and to provide the city with a certificate of insurance. If there is any change
in insurance status during the license period, the operator of that
establishment shall immediately notify the city, in writing, of the change and
shall provide a copy of the new insurance certificate. The city may amend the
business license to reflect the status change. (Ord. 2012-5, 12-11-2012)
4-9-5: LICENSE AND ANNUAL FEES:
   A.   Each operator of a bed and breakfast establishment or a guest house/
suite who applies for a required license shall pay a license fee of sixty
dollars ($60.00) if the premises contains one or two (2) buildings. If the
premises contains more than two (2) buildings, the applicant must pay ten
dollars ($10.00) for each additional unit, up to a maximum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). This fee will cover the cost of the annual inspection and
one reinspection, if required. If the establishment does not pass on the first
reinspection, an additional fifty dollars ($50.00) will be charged for each
subsequent reinspection until compliance.
   B.   Before March 1 of each year, each licensee who wishes to renew its
business license for the next fiscal year beginning May 1 shall pay an annual
license fee of sixty dollars ($60.00). After payment of the annual fee, and
before May 1, the licensee shall submit a current certificate of insurance and
meet the inspection requirements. Payments made after May 10 will be assessed a
twenty five dollar ($25.00) late penalty. (Ord. 2012-5, 12-11-2012)
4-9-6: FORM, AND DISPLAY, OF LICENSE:
The license shall be in such form, and shall include such information, as may
be prescribed from time to time by the city. The issued license shall be
conspicuously displayed near the entrance of the premises. (Ord. 2012-5, 12-11-
2012)
4-9-7: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day up to a maximum of one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). The city shall notify the
establishment operator of such violation and allow the operator thirty (30)
days to cure such violation. Each day the violation continues past thirty (30)
days of notice shall constitute a separate offense. If the city seeks court
intervention to obtain compliance, the violator also must pay all court costs
and fees associated with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-5, 12-11-2012)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX
SECTION:
4-10-1: Short Title
4-10-2: Definitions
4-10-3: Tax
4-10-4: Collection Of Tax By Public Utility
4-10-5: Books And Records
4-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be known as the "Municipal Gas Use Tax"
and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the City of Nauvoo,
the State of Illinois, or any other Municipal corporation or political
subdivision of the State. (Ord. 2015-5, 5-10-2016)
4-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, Municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this State, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT: The Public Utilities Act 1  as amended.
PUBLIC UTILITY: As defined in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act.
RETAIL PURCHASER: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term "retailer" means
any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas. (Ord. 2015-5, 5-10-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
4-10-3: TAX:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, a tax is imposed on the
privilege of using or consuming gas in the City that is purchased in a sale at
retail at the rate of: one and one-fourth cents ($0.0125) per therm with
respect to all bills issued on or after July 1, 2016. (Ord. 2017-4, 6-19-2017)
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
   C.   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser's premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to section
4-10-4 of this chapter on or before the payment due date of the public
utility's bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the City Treasurer on
or before the fifteenth day of the second month following the month in which
the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public utility has been
designated to collect the tax pursuant to section
4-10-4 of this chapter or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a
public utility so designated.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the Constitutions of the United
States or State of Illinois, may not be made the subject of taxation by the
City.
   E.   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this chapter with respect to the use or consumption of the gas,
but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the City Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   F.   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after July 1, 2016.
   G.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be: 1) credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment or 2) subject to a refund if no such tax is due or to become
due; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior
to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited or refunded.
   H.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
chapter shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 2015-5, 5-10-2016)
4-10-4: COLLECTION OF TAX BY PUBLIC UTILITY:
The Mayor and City Treasurer are each authorized to enter into a contract for
collection of the tax imposed by this chapter with any public utility providing
gas service in the City. The contract shall include and substantially conform
with the following provisions:
   A.   The public utility will collect the tax from retail purchasers as an
independent contractor;
   B.   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the City Treasurer no
more often than once each month;
   C.   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax collections a
service fee equal to three percent (3%) of the amounts collected and timely
remitted to the City Treasurer;
   D.   The public utility shall not be responsible to the City for any tax not
actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
   E.   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon. (Ord. 2015-5, 5-
10-2016)
4-10-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including original source
documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise to any tax liability or exemption under this
chapter. All such books and records shall, at all times during business hours,
be subject to and available for inspection by the City. (Ord. 2015-5, 5-10-
2016)
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL ELECTRICITY TAX
SECTION:
4-11-1: Tax Imposed
4-11-2: Exceptions
4-11-3: Additional Taxes
4-11-4: Collection
4-11-5: Reports To Municipality
4-11-6: Credit For Overpayment
4-11-7: Penalty
4-11-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
exercising the following privileges: The privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the Municipality, at specified rates, to be calculated on a
monthly basis for each purchaser.
   A.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth
below shall be effective from July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017, for
residential and non-residential customers:
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.001525 (0.1525 cents) per kilowatt-hour;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.001 (0.1 cents) per kilowatt-hour;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.0009 (0.09 cents) per kilowatt-hour;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.000875 (0.0875 cents) per kilowatt-hour;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.00085 (0.085 cents) per kilowatt-hour;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.0008 (0.08 cents) per kilowatt-hour;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.0007875 (0.07875 cents) per kilowatt-hour;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.000775 (0.0775 cents) per kilowatt-hour;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.0007625 (0.07625 cents) per kilowatt-hour; and
      10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: $0.00075 (0.075 cents) per kilowatt- hour. (Ord.
2015-6, 5-10-2016)
   B.   The City Council shall review the tax rates periodically and shall
change them by passage of an ordinance as necessary. (Ord. 2017-5, 6-19-2017)
4-11-2: EXCEPTIONS:
None of the taxes authorized by this chapter may be imposed with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the
business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and Statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by this State or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this chapter for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act as authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1; nor
shall any tax authorized by this chapter be imposed upon any person engaged in
a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at
the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
Municipality, whether privately or Municipally owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the Municipality. Any account of the City of Nauvoo
is exempt from the tax imposed in section
4-11-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-6, 5-10-2016)
4-11-3: ADDITIONAL TAXES:
Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business. (Ord. 2015-6, 5-10-2016)
4-11-4: COLLECTION:
The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the purchaser by the
person maintaining a place of business in this State who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is
recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this chapter and any
such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt
owed to the Municipality by such person delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such
tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons delivering
electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount
equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person delivering
electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the
Municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the Municipality in the manner prescribed by the
Municipality. On or before the last day of each month, persons delivering
electricity shall make a return to the City for the preceding month and shall,
at the time of filing such return, pay the Municipality the amount of the tax
collected pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2015-6, 5-10-2016)
4-11-5: REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY:
On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not paid the tax
imposed by this chapter to a person delivering electricity as set forth in
section
4-11-1 of this chapter and who is not otherwise exempt from paying such tax
shall make a return to the City Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
   A.   His name;
   B.   His principal place of business;
   C.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month upon the
basis of which the tax is imposed;
   D.   The amount of tax; and
   E.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require.
The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of making
such return, pay to the City of Nauvoo the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that, in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 2015-6, 5-10-2016)
4-11-6: CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 2015-6, 5-10-2016)
4-11-7: PENALTY 1 :
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who willfully violates any other provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and, in
addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due. (Ord.
2015-6, 5-10-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Nuisances - Miscellaneous   1
Nuisances - Weeds And Grass   2
Groundwater Use   3
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES - MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Nuisances Defined And Listed
5-1-2: Nuisances Constitute Violation Of City Code
5-1-3: Standing To Complain Of Nuisances
5-1-4: Abatement Proceedings In General
5-1-5: Emergency Abatement Of Certain Nuisances
5-1-6: Authority To Contract For Abatement Services
5-1-7: Liability For Violation; Penalty To Include All Costs And Expenses Of
Abatement
5-1-1: NUISANCES DEFINED AND LISTED:
The City of Nauvoo declares certain acts and omissions to constitute nuisances
and violations of this Code, including those acts or omissions that are
declared to be nuisances by the laws of the State of Illinois, those that are
known common law nuisances, those that are nuisances in fact, and those listed
below:
   A.   Unsafe/Unsightly Structures: To maintain any building, structure,
street, sign, or billboard in an unsafe, hazardous, or unsightly condition,
including, but not limited to, allowing unpainted or rotted materials to remain
on a building, allowing a building to have a roof that is unable to withstand a
normal load, and allowing a building with uncovered windows or an uncovered
foundation.
   B.   Odors: To engage in any activity that causes or produces unreasonably
offensive odors, except to the extent that those activities are carried on in
the public interest.
   C.   Putrid Substances: To maintain or permit any substance on the premises
that is, or may become, putrid or create an unhealthy condition.
   D.   Noises: To cause or allow unreasonably loud noises tending to cause
alarm or to disturb the public peace and quiet.
   E.   Licenses: To fail or refuse to obtain and possess any license required
by this Code or other ordinance of the City.
   F.   Continuing Violations Of This Code: To continue to do any act(s) or
omission(s) that constitutes a violation of this Code or other ordinances of
the City.
   G.   Attractive Nuisances: For the owner or occupant of any premises to
create, maintain, or suffer an attractive nuisance to remain on the premises.
   H.   Unhealthy Conditions: To create, allow, maintain, or permit any
condition that may endanger the public health, including, but not limited to,
keeping brush piles, storing unrimmed tires and uncovered containers, and
allowing stagnant water in a pool or pond.
   I.   Encroachments: To cause, allow, permit, or suffer any encroachments
upon public ways or upon public grounds without obtaining a permit for that
encroachment.
   J.   Violation Of Technical Codes: To cause, allow, permit, or suffer the
violation of the City's Building Code, Electrical Code, Fire Prevention Code,
Heating and Air Conditioning Code, Plumbing Code, or any other technical code
adopted by any provision of this Code or any other City ordinance.
   K.   Abandoned Refrigerators: To leave or permit standing outside of any
structure, or within any abandoned structure, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended, or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or
other container which has an airtight door or a lid with a snap lock or other
locking device which cannot be released from the inside; except that it shall
not be a nuisance under this subsection if the door is first removed from that
container.
   L.   Littering: To allow, suffer, permit, or cause to be dropped, thrown,
discarded, placed, or deposited on any public way or public place, or on any
private property when public property may be affected thereby, any paper,
glass, plastic, wood, metal, solid or liquid vegetable or animal compound,
rubbish, garbage, waste, effluent, junk, debris, litter, solid, or any
combination of them, except in a refuse receptacle or landfill site of the
City.
   M.   Construction And Heavy Equipment Noise: To allow, suffer, permit or
cause to be operated or otherwise engaged vehicles licensed by the State of
Illinois or another state as a second division truck exceeding a gross vehicle
weight of thirty thousand (30,000) pounds or unlicensed motor vehicles used in
the construction industry and commonly referred to as heavy construction
equipment (including, but not limited to, road graders, backhoes, steamrollers
and cranes) for the purpose of making commercial deliveries or engaging in
building construction, other construction, or making commercial pickups, such
as refuse collections, at any location within five hundred feet (500') of a
residential use, before six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day and after nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any day; however, this prohibition shall not apply in
cases where a repair is immediately required for the protection of life or
property. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit mere travel of legally
authorized vehicles upon the streets of the City.
   N.   Graffiti:
      1.   Graffiti shall be defined as any sign, symbol, marking, drawing,
name, initial, word, diagram, sketch, picture, or letter placed upon the real
or personal property of an owner without the owner's express, written
permission; however, it shall not be a defense that the owner or occupant has
given permission for this graffiti if the graffiti tends to incite violence.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place graffiti upon another's
real or personal, public or private, property.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of fixed real or
personal property located within the public view to place, or give permission
to place, graffiti, as otherwise defined in subsection N1 of this section, on
said real or personal property if the graffiti tends to incite violence by
referring to gang or criminal activity, by depicting or expressing obscenity,
or by containing defamatory material about a public or private person, except
as otherwise allowed by law.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, while in any public
building or facility, or while on private property, any of the following
materials which have been, or will be, used to violate subsection N2 or N3 of
this section: spray paint containers, paint, ink, marking pens containing non-
water soluble fluid, brushes, applicators, or other materials for marking,
scratching, or etching.
      5.   Upon being notified in writing by the City, the property owner upon
whose property graffiti has been illegally placed shall remove the graffiti
within fifteen (15) days of the date of notice. The property owner may submit a
written request to the Chief of Police or the Nuisance Committee, requesting an
extension of the removal date and stating the reason for noncompliance (such as
inclement weather conditions or physical inability to perform the removal). The
property owner also may request the City's assistance in removing the graffiti
if the owner is physically unable to perform the removal. The granting of an
extension is at the discretion of the City. If a property owner fails to remove
the graffiti within the original deadline, or within any extended period
granted by the City, the City shall cause the summary abatement of this
nuisance as prescribed in this chapter, and all costs shall be assessed to the
owner. The penalty for the offense of failure to remove graffiti may include a
fine of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense; each day after
the compliance date shall be considered a separate offense.
      6.   The penalty for violating subsection N2 of this section shall be a
fine of at least fifty dollars ($50.00) but not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00); in addition, the offender also may have to pay restitution
to the property owner for the costs of restoring the property to its condition
before the graffiti was applied.
      7.   The penalty for violating subsection N3 of this section shall
consist of a fine of at least fifty dollars ($50.00) but not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
      8.   The penalty for violating subsection N4 of this section shall be a
fine of at least fifty dollars ($50.00) but not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
      9.   Public service work, including, but not limited to, cleaning
graffiti at locations within the City of Nauvoo may be required for persons
convicted by a court of violating subsection N2, N3, or N4 of this section,
either in addition to, or in lieu of, the fines or penalties prescribed in
subsections N6, N7, and N8 of this section.
   O.   Barbed Wire: To construct, create, allow, maintain or permit within the
City a fence or barrier consisting or made of barbed wire or of which barbed
wire is a part, unless the barbed wire commences at least eight feet (8') above
the ground, unless the fence or barrier is used for containment of farm land.
   P.   Burning Garbage And Household Waste: To burn garbage and household
waste within the City limits at any time. "Garbage and household waste"
includes all solid waste and refuse products or materials generated by any
household (for example, materials generated from cooking or preparing food or
from cleaning, painting and other household activities). However, this
subsection does not prohibit campfires and fires used for cooking purposes
within the City limits or any hog roast or wiener roast held within the City
limits, unless a "no burn order" is in effect.
   Q.   Burning Landscape Waste: To burn wet landscape waste (grass clippings,
weeds, leaves, etc.) at any time; to burn dry landscape waste and cardboard
outside the allowable hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M.; to burn any materials within two (2) blocks of any school during
regular school hours and while school is in session; and to burn any materials
while a "no burn order" is in effect. All burn piles shall be continually
monitored; water or other fire extinguishing equipment must be readily
available at the burn site; and all fires shall be extinguished and not allowed
to smolder beyond the allowable burning hours. (Ord. 2013-5, 12-10-2013)
5-1-2: NUISANCES CONSTITUTE VIOLATION OF CITY CODE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain, or to permit the
creation or maintenance of, a nuisance (as defined above) upon property under
that person's control. A person who does so shall be guilty of a violation of
this section, and the violation shall be punished as set forth in this chapter.
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the right to also seek injunctive or
other equitable relief. (Ord. 2013-5, 12-10-2013)
5-1-3: STANDING TO COMPLAIN OF NUISANCES:
The following shall have standing to complain of any condition declared to be a
nuisance by this chapter:
   A.   Any employee or elected official of the City;
   B.   Any person whose interest, rights, or property are particularly
adversely affected by the nuisance, such as an adjoining property owner. (Ord.
2013-5, 12-10-2013)
5-1-4: ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS IN GENERAL:
   A.   Duty To Report: Any person or entity that has standing to complain
under this chapter shall report the fact of the nuisance and the details
surrounding it to the Mayor, City Council, and/or City Nuisance Committee; if
that nuisance complaint is justified under the circumstances, the City may
institute abatement proceedings in accordance with this chapter or State law.
In order to determine whether the nuisance complaint is justified, a
representative of the City may enter upon the property to determine the nature
and extent of the violation.
   B.   Written Notice: If the nuisance does not threaten immediate danger to
persons or property, the City shall issue a notice to the premises' occupant
and to the owner. The notice shall identify the property, describe the nature
of the nuisance, and state the date (for example, within 3 days from the date
of receipt of the notice) that the abatement must be completed.
   C.   Service Of Notice: If the property in violation is occupied, then the
notice of violation shall be served upon the occupant by personal service or by
mail (with delivery confirmation). If the occupant is not the owner, a copy of
the notice also shall be served upon the owner by personal service or by mail
(with delivery confirmation). However, if the property is unoccupied or vacant,
then the notice shall be served upon the owner by mail (with delivery
confirmation) at his last known address. If the owner's address is unknown,
then the notice shall be served by posting it on the property.
   D.   Abatement By City: If the owner or occupant fails to abate the nuisance
within the time period provided for in the notice, or as extended by the City,
then the City, by its employee, agent, or other designee, is authorized to
enter upon the property upon which the public nuisance exists and abate the
nuisance, including removing the nuisance and performing any related clean- up
and debris removal. The City also may file an action in the Circuit Court and
request an order compelling the occupant and/or owner to abate the nuisance and
to pay all expenses related to the abatement, including the administrative fee,
attorney fees, and court costs. (Ord. 2013-5, 12-10-2013)
5-1-5: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT OF CERTAIN NUISANCES:
When a nuisance as defined by this chapter exists, and the nuisance causes or
threatens immediate danger or great peril to persons or property, the nuisance
may be immediately abated by the City, by using the following procedure:
   A.   The Mayor, or some other designated City official, shall make a finding
that the nuisance exists and that the nuisance causes or threatens imminent
danger or great peril to persons or property and that an emergency exists.
   B.   A copy of the City official's findings made under subsection A of this
section shall be placed on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
   C.   The City Clerk shall immediately issue a notice directed to the owner
and occupant of the premises on which the nuisance exists, directing them to
immediately abate the nuisance.
   D.   The notice also may be posted on the premises.
   E.   Upon being served with a notice to abate a nuisance, the owner and
occupant of the premises shall immediately abate the nuisance. Their failure to
immediately abate the nuisance shall constitute a violation of this Code and
shall be punishable as provided in this Code.
   F.   If the owner and occupant of the premises do not immediately abate the
nuisance, the City is authorized to enter upon the property and immediately
abate the nuisance. (Ord. 2013-5, 12-10-2013)
5-1-6: AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT FOR ABATEMENT SERVICES:
The Mayor or other designated City official may execute contracts in order to
provide for City abatement as provided for in this chapter, provided that the
fees charged shall be by the hour or by the square foot and that any special
charges for extra work or for disposal costs are clearly identified. (Ord.
2013-5, 12-10-2013)
5-1-7: LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION; PENALTY TO INCLUDE ALL COSTS AND EXPENSES OF
ABATEMENT:
The owner and occupant of property upon which a public nuisance/obstruction
exists ("the violator") shall be jointly and severally liable to the City for
the violation and for all fines and penalties.
The fines and penalties imposed for a graffiti-related violation are those in
section
5-1-1 of this chapter. For all other violations of this chapter, if the
violation is not removed by the compliance deadline set or extended by the
City, the violator is subject to a fine or penalty per offense of between
twenty five dollars ($25.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00), to be
determined by the City. Each day that a violation exists or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
A person who violates any provision of this chapter will be assessed, and must
pay, attorney fees and all other costs incurred by the City in enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and/or in abating the nuisance (such as contractor
fees, demolition costs, and debris removal costs), in addition to the required
fines and penalties.
The City also may record a lien against the property for all expenses and fees
associated with the abatement of the nuisance and may foreclose the lien and
sell the property for nonpayment of those expenses and fees. The owner and
occupant shall be jointly and severally liable to the City for the foreclosure
costs, including all court costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 2013-5, 12-10-2013)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES - WEEDS AND GRASS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Declaration Of Nuisance; Investigation Of Nuisance; Abatement
5-2-2: Notice To Abate
5-2-3: Abatement By City
5-2-4: Authority To Contract For Abatement Services
5-2-5: Liability For Violation; Penalty To Include Costs And Expenses Of
Abatement; Lien And Lien Foreclosure
5-2-1: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; INVESTIGATION OF NUISANCE; ABATEMENT:
No owner or occupant of any property within the City shall allow the public
nuisances, as defined in subsections A and B of this section, to exist or grow
upon the property that they control or occupy. A representative of the City may
come upon a property that is suspected to be in violation of this chapter to
investigate the alleged violation, to conduct abatement, and/or to monitor
abatement, of the nuisance.
   A.   Noxious Weeds: All noxious weeds are hereby declared a public nuisance.
Noxious weeds include jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, and any
other plant declared by the State of Illinois to be a noxious weed, pursuant to
505 Illinois Compiled Statutes 100/1 et seq.
   B.   Other Vegetation: All other weeds and grasses that are allowed to grow
to a height of ten inches (10") or more are hereby declared a nuisance, and all
shrubbery that is growing on, standing upon, or otherwise being uncontrolled on
any property in such a way that it constitutes an obstruction to the traveling
public in the City is declared a public nuisance.
   C.   Exceptions: The height restrictions of subsection B of this section
shall not apply to ornamental or decorative grasses that do not obstruct the
traveling public, to agricultural or farm land, including those lands
registered as hayfields (including fields of rye, clover, and alfalfa), or to
areas such as ravines, terraced slopes, and other areas with steep slopes on
which sound erosion control practices would require the propagation of dense
vegetation. However, in no event shall the vegetation in a hayfield be allowed
to grow to a height of more than thirty six inches (36"). (Ord. 2012-7, 2-12-
2013)
5-2-2: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Notice By Publication: In addition to all other forms of public
notification currently utilized by the City, the City shall cause a public
notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City once
per week for two (2) consecutive weeks in the month of April of each year. The
notice shall be published in advertising format in the following form or in a
substantially similar form:
   CITY OF NAUVOO
   PUBLIC NOTICE OF NUISANCE VIOLATIONS AND ABATEMENT
   RELATING TO WEEDS, GRASS, AND OTHER VEGETATION
The City of Nauvoo asks that all property owners and occupants take notice of
the following provisions set forth in Title 5, Chapter 2, of the Nauvoo City
Code concerning weeds, grass, and other vegetation nuisances:
   1.   All noxious weeds are declared a nuisance.
   2.    All weeds and grass that are allowed to grow to a height of 10" or
more are declared a nuisance.
   3.   All shrubbery and other vegetation that grows or stands or is
uncontrolled on property so as to constitute an obstruction to the traveling
public are declared a nuisance.
If the City observes such nuisances, it will enter the property to verify the
violation and will send a written notice to the property owner and occupant
that describes the nuisance and directs the owner and occupant to remove the
nuisance by a specific date (for example, three days from receipt of notice).
If the nuisance is not removed by that date, or if the person receiving notice
does not contact City Hall before that date to explain his/her inability to
comply by that date and to request a different date, the City may remove the
nuisance. If the City removes the nuisance, the City's abatement costs will be
the responsibility of the owner and occupant. If a second or subsequent
violation occurs within a 12-month period, the City may take action to abate
the nuisance without sending notice to the owner and occupant, and the same
fines, costs, and penalties will be assessed. The City also may initiate an
ordinance violation action in the Circuit Court of Hancock County, and shall be
allowed to recover all fines, costs, and penalties, and any attorney fees
incurred in the prosecution of the action.
   B.   Written Notice To Owner And Occupant: When a nuisance described in this
chapter is reported to the City, the City (by a designated person or persons)
shall issue to the owner and occupant of the property a written notice entitled
"Notice to Abate Public Nuisance". The person issuing the notice shall provide
a copy of it to the Nuisance Committee and to the City Clerk. The notice shall
identify the property, describe the nature of the public nuisance or
obstruction, and direct the owner and occupant to abate the public nuisance or
obstruction by a specific date (for example, within 3 days from the date of
receipt of the notice).
If a second or subsequent violation occurs within a 12-month period, the City
may take action to abate the nuisance without sending notice to the owner and
occupant, and the same fines, costs, and penalties will be assessed. The City
also may initiate an ordinance violation action in the Circuit Court of Hancock
County, and shall be allowed to recover all fines, costs, and penalties, and
any attorney fees incurred in the prosecution of the action.
The "Notice to Abate Public Nuisance" shall contain the following warning, or a
substantially similar warning:
   WARNING
In addition to the public notice published in the newspaper during April of
this year, and the City's other forms of public notification, this notice may
serve as the City's sole notice to you that, if there are any additional
occurrences of the growth of weeds and grass of ten inches (10") or more in
height or any other public nuisance as defined in
5-2-1  of the Nauvoo City Code, the City may come upon your property to
investigate and remove that public nuisance, and the owner and occupant will be
assessed the cost of abatement without any additional or further notice.
   C.   Service Of Notice: If the property in violation is occupied, then the
notice of violation shall be served upon the occupant by personal service or by
mail (with delivery confirmation). If the occupant is not the owner, a copy of
the notice also shall be served upon the owner by personal service or by mail
(with delivery confirmation). However, if the property is unoccupied or vacant,
then the notice shall be served upon the owner by mail (with delivery
confirmation) at his last known address. If the owner's address is unknown,
then the notice shall be served by posting it on the property. (Ord. 2012-7, 2-
12-2013)
5-2-3: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
If the owner and occupant fail to abate the public nuisance within the time
period provided for in the notice, or as extended by the City, then the City,
by its employee, agent, or other designee, is authorized to enter upon the
property upon which the public nuisance exists and abate the nuisance,
including spraying, cutting, or otherwise removing the public nuisance and
performing any related clean-up and removal. If the public nuisance should
recur on that property within a 12-month period, the City, or its employee,
agent or other designee, is authorized to take the action described in this
section without the necessity of additional notice to the owner and occupant.
(Ord. 2012-7, 2-12-2013)
5-2-4: AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT FOR ABATEMENT SERVICES:
The Mayor or other designated City official may execute contracts in order to
provide for City abatement as provided for in this chapter, provided that the
fees charged shall be by the hour or by the square foot and that any special
charges for extra work or for disposal costs are clearly identified. (Ord.
2012-7, 2-12-2013)
5-2-5: LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION; PENALTY TO INCLUDE COSTS AND EXPENSES OF
ABATEMENT; LIEN AND LIEN FORECLOSURE:
The owner and occupant of property upon which a public nuisance/obstruction
exists ("the violator") shall be jointly and severally liable to the City for
the violation and for payment of all fines and penalties.
If the violation is not removed by the compliance deadline set or extended by
the City, the violator is subject to a fine or penalty per offense of between
twenty five dollars ($25.00) and five hundred dollars ($500.00), to be
determined by the City. Each day that a violation exists or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
A person who violates any provision of this chapter will be assessed, and must
pay, attorney fees and all other costs incurred by the City in enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and/or in abating the nuisance (such as contractor
fees, demolition costs, and debris removal costs), in addition to the required
fines and penalties.
The City also may record a lien against the property for all expenses and fees
associated with the abatement of the nuisance and may foreclose the lien and
sell the property for nonpayment of those expenses and fees. The owner and
occupant shall be jointly and severally liable to the City for the foreclosure
costs, including all court costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 2012-7, 2-12-2013)
CHAPTER 3
GROUNDWATER USE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Use Of Groundwater As A Potable Water Supply In Designated Area
Prohibited
5-3-3: Penalties
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision (including the City of Nauvoo), or any other
legal entity, and his/her/its legal representatives, agents, or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods. (Ord. 2017-9, 9-12-2017)
5-3-2: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY IN DESIGNATED AREA
PROHIBITED:
Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date of this
chapter, the use or attempted use of groundwater as a potable water supply
(such as by installing or drilling wells or otherwise accessing groundwater) by
any person, including the City of Nauvoo, is strictly prohibited within the
following designated area:
The area bordered by Knight Street, N. Fulmer Street, Ripley Street, and N.
Wilcox Street, as they are currently configured. (Ord. 2017-9, 9-12-2017)
5-3-3: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates the provisions of section
 5-3-2 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense and shall pay all enforcement and/or
collection costs and expenses, including court costs and legal fees. Each day
that a violation exists or continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-9, 9-12-2017)
TITLE 6
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Signs   1
Historical Buildings   2
Building Permits   3
Demolition Permits   4
Floodplain Development   5
Building Codes   6
Address Numbers   7
CHAPTER 1
SIGNS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Compliance Required
6-1-2: Permit Required
6-1-3: Location And Construction Requirements
6-1-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The locating of billboards for advertising purposes upon vacant property, or on
buildings, within the city is forbidden except when the same are located
according to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 210, 4-7-1930)
6-1-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person wishing to erect or maintain a billboard, as aforesaid, shall first
petition the city council for permission to do so. The petition shall state the
character and dimensions of the said billboard, and state particularly where
the same is to be located. The council may grant or reject any or all
petitions. If the petition is granted, the right of the petitioner shall
continue for a period of three (3) years, after which time a renewal may be
granted, or the petition may be rejected. (Ord. 210, 4-7-1930)
6-1-3: LOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No billboard for advertising purposes shall be allowed to be erected on
any vacant property, unless said billboard is located a distance away from the
inner line of any adjacent sidewalk, equal to the height of said billboard,
plus ten feet (10'), measuring from the surface of the ground upward.
   B.   All billboards located on vacant property, or billboards or signboards
attached to any building, shall be securely and safely fastened by sufficient
anchors, as affecting the first mentioned, and securely supported by strong
iron rods or bolts and firmly attached to the building as affecting the second
mentioned, and billboards attached to buildings shall furthermore leave the
sidewalk unobstructed.
   C.   No billboard shall be erected within the corporate limits of the city
which shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height and twenty feet (20') in length.
(Ord. 210, 4-7-1930)
CHAPTER 2
HISTORICAL BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Destruction To Historical Buildings Restricted
6-2-1: DESTRUCTION TO HISTORICAL BUILDINGS RESTRICTED:
No person shall raze, demolish, materially alter, or otherwise destroy any
building or part of a building located within the city, which has been in
existence seventy five (75) years or more, without first receiving a permit
therefor from the city council. Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall pay a fine or penalty of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), the same to be recovered
before the city clerk or treasurer. (Ord. 345, 3-3-1958; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Notification Required
6-3-2: Permit Information
6-3-3: Permit Submission
6-3-4: Approval
6-3-5: Review Project Site
6-3-6: Regulations
6-3-7: Site Plan Review Procedure
6-3-1: NOTIFICATION REQUIRED:
Prior to the commencement of the construction or alteration of any new or
existing building, structure or parking lot, excluding normal upkeep and
maintenance projects and small, portable storage sheds not to exceed eight feet
by sixteen feet by eight feet (8' x 16' x 8') and having no more than one
hundred twenty eight (128) square feet, and being portable on skids, the owner
or his duly authorized agent shall file a written application for building
permit in the office of the city clerk. The applicant shall use section
6-3-7 of this chapter to facilitate permit approval. (Ord. 2003-9, 3-9-2004;
amd. Ord. 2008-3, 4-14-2009)
6-3-2: PERMIT INFORMATION:
The application for building permit shall state at the minimum the applicant's
name, address and phone number; the contractor's license number and phone
number; the owner's address and phone number; the property location; the type
of improvement, proposed use, structural size, height, length and width and the
estimated value of proposed building or improvement; if there are any
easements; the primary construction materials; whether the building will use a
septic tank and whether the building is in a floodplain; the cost of the sewer
permit, water permit and building permit; provide a sketch of the lot
indicating lot size, shape, existing structures, alleys or easements and
adjacent streets; provide a sketch, plan or plat of the proposed structure
indicating sizes; and shall be signed and dated by the owner and contractor. If
evidence of property lines is not visible creating the possibility of a dispute
regarding the location of property lines, the building inspector may require a
survey prior to the approval of the building permit. Said application for
building permit shall be on file in the office of the city clerk, and may be
amended from time to time by the city council of the city of Nauvoo, Illinois.
(Ord. 2001-8, 9-11-2001)
6-3-3: PERMIT SUBMISSION:
The applicant must complete and submit the application for building permit to
the city clerk seven (7) days prior to the regularly scheduled city council
meeting. The building inspector will review the permit and project site and if
the property lines are in question, will inform the adjacent property owners
concerning the application for building permit. The building inspector shall
submit his remarks and decisions to the streets, buildings and grounds
committee for review and submission to the city council which will then review
the permit, the building inspector's remarks, and decide to approve or
disapprove the building permit. (Ord. 1998-7, 5-11-1999; amd. Ord. 2001-8, 9-
11-2001; Ord. 2002-9, 10-8-2002)
6-3-4: APPROVAL:
Upon approval of the application for building permit by the Nauvoo city
council, the applicant shall pay the permit fee as set forth in the application
and then the applicant has ninety (90) days to begin construction. The building
permit will expire ninety (90) days from the date of approval. If construction
work is suspended or abandoned for a period of ninety (90) days at any time
after work is commenced, the permit becomes null and void and a new building
permit must be reapplied for the project. (Ord. 1998-7, 5-11-1999)
For commercial construction, the building inspector has the authority to grant
final approval of building permit applications when the dollar amount does not
exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The report of the building
inspector's actions will be submitted to the streets, buildings and grounds
committee monthly for review and submission to the city council.
For construction of a new private residence or altering an existing private
residence: a) a building permit is required, only if the footprint is new or
altered, or if the foundation, bearing walls, beams, or trusses are added or
relocated; or if the purpose and use of a building is altered and b)
consultation with the building inspector is required for plumbing and
electrical changes and roofing. Licensed contractors may be required for these
activities. The report of the building inspector's actions will be submitted to
the streets, buildings and grounds committee monthly for review and submission
to the city council.
For construction not requiring a building permit, the owner may request
consultation with the inspector. A fee may be charged. (Ord. 2008-3, 4-14-2009)
6-3-5: REVIEW PROJECT SITE:
The building inspector shall review the project site on dates and at times as
he deems necessary. (Ord. 1998-7, 5-11-1999)
6-3-6: REGULATIONS:
Construction of any new building or structure, and remodeling of an existing
building or structure (including attached or detached garages), shall be
performed according to the provisions contained in the edition of the
international building code being used by the city of Nauvoo at the time of
construction and according to any other applicable codes as listed in chapter 6
of this title. (Ord. 2009-7, 3-9-2010)
6-3-7: SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE:
Each person or entity subject to the provisions of this chapter shall follow
the site plan review procedure outlined in section
10-14-1, appendix A, "Planning Process In Nauvoo, Illinois", of this code.
(Ord. 2009-7, 3-9-2010)
CHAPTER 4
DEMOLITION PERMITS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Notification Required
6-4-2: Permit Information
6-4-3: Permit Submission
6-4-4: Approval
6-4-5: Demolition Work Suspended
6-4-6: Review Project Site
6-4-1: NOTIFICATION REQUIRED:
Prior to the commencement of the demolition of any new or existing building,
structure or parking lot, the owner or his duly authorized agent shall file a
written application for a demolition permit in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. 2000-11, 4-10-2001)
6-4-2: PERMIT INFORMATION:
The application for demolition permit shall state at the minimum the
applicant's name, address and phone number; the contractor's license number and
phone number; the owner's address and phone number; the property location; the
manner in which the demolition shall proceed; the primary demolition materials;
if there are any easements; whether any asbestos is located in the buildings or
on the real estate; and shall be signed and dated by the owner and contractor.
If evidence of property lines is not visible creating the possibility of a
dispute regarding the location of property lines, the building inspector may
require a survey prior to the approval of the building permit. It shall be the
applicant's responsibility to identify and dispose of all hazardous materials
properly in accordance with state and federal regulations. Said application for
demolition permit shall be in the form attached to ordinance 2001-9 on file in
the office of the city clerk, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein and which may be amended
from time to time by the city council of the city of Nauvoo, Illinois. (Ord.
2001-9, 10-9-2001)
6-4-3: PERMIT SUBMISSION:
The applicant must complete and submit the application for demolition permit to
the city clerk seven (7) days prior to the regularly scheduled city council
meeting. The building inspector will review the permit and project site and if
the property lines are in question, will inform the adjacent property owners
concerning the application for demolition permit. The building inspector shall
submit his remarks and decisions to the Nauvoo city council which will then
review the permit, the building inspector's remarks, and decide to approve or
disapprove the demolition permit. (Ord. 2000-11, 4-10-2001; amd. Ord. 2001-9,
10-9-2001)
6-4-4: APPROVAL:
Upon approval of the application for demolition permit by the Nauvoo city
council, the applicant shall pay the permit fee as set forth in the application
and then the applicant has thirty (30) days to begin demolition. The demolition
permit will expire thirty (30) days from the date of approval. If demolition
work is suspended or abandoned for a period of thirty (30) days at any time
after work is commenced, the permit becomes null and void and a new demolition
permit must be reapplied for the project. (Ord. 2000-11, 4-10-2001)
6-4-5: DEMOLITION WORK SUSPENDED:
Upon suspension, abandonment, interruption, or completion of demolition, the
project site is subject to nuisance regulations as prescribed in this code.
(Ord. 2007-14, 6-10-2008)
6-4-6: REVIEW PROJECT SITE:
The building inspector shall review the project site on dates and at times as
he deems necessary. (Ord. 2000-11, 4-10-2001; amd. Ord. 2007-14, 6-10-2008)
CHAPTER 5
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
6-5-1: Purpose
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Base Flood Elevation
6-5-4: Duties Of The Mayor
6-5-5: Development Permit
6-5-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
6-5-7: Protecting Buildings
6-5-8: Subdivision Requirements
6-5-9: Public Health And Other Standards
6-5-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
6-5-11: Variances
6-5-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
6-5-13: Penalty
6-5-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
6-5-15: Severability
6-5-16: Effective Date
6-5-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city of
Nauvoo pursuant to article VII, section 6, of the Illinois constitution in
order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
6-5-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the crest
of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city of Nauvoo, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Nauvoo, or that may be annexed
into the city of Nauvoo, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the city of Nauvoo are generally identified as such on the
countywide flood insurance rate map of Hancock County prepared by the federal
emergency management agency and dated October 16, 2009. Floodplain also
includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Hancock County that are within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Nauvoo or that may be annexed
into the city of Nauvoo are generally identified as such on the flood insurance
rate map prepared for Hancock County by the federal emergency management agency
and dated October 16, 2009.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the Mississippi River shall be as
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Hancock County
prepared by FEMA and dated October 16, 2009. The floodways for each of the
remaining floodplains of the city of Nauvoo shall be according to the best data
available from federal, state, or other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
6-5-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. The term
includes "repetitive loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started, or
   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration
of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
   The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Mississippi River
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide "Flood
Insurance Study Of Hancock County" prepared by the federal emergency management
agency and dated October 16, 2009.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of Hancock County.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Hancock
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Hancock County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city of Nauvoo, or that may be annexed into the city of Nauvoo, shall be
as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the "Flood Insurance Study Of
Hancock County" prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated
October 16, 2009. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-4: DUTIES OF THE MAYOR:
The mayor shall be responsible for the general administration of this chapter
and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains under the
jurisdiction of the city of Nauvoo meet the requirements of this chapter.
Specifically, the mayor shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
6-5-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
6-5-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
6-5-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built" elevation
of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
6-5-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
6-5-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
6-5-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
6-5-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the mayor. The mayor shall not issue a development
permit if the proposed development does not meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
6-5-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   The cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the mayor
shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation. Any
development located on land that can be shown by the base flood elevation. Any
development located on land that can be shown by survey data to be higher than
the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled after the date
of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any
development located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and
hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood insurance rate map,
is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
The mayor shall maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the
development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to
the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map identification.
The mayor shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all
other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit not required
letters that may be required for this type of activity. The mayor shall not
issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and local permits have been
obtained. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of
water resources statewide permit number 2:
         a.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 foot, and
         b.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half feet (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         c.   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         d.   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         e.   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state of Illinois and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/
OWR permit.
         f.   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 3:
         a.   The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells, or other
similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army corps of
engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 4:
         a.   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         b.   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         c.   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         d.   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         e.   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         f.   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
code, and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 5:
         a.   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers.
         b.   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet (10').
         c.   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         d.   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         e.   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         f.   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         g.   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         h.   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         i.   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner that will
minimize obstruction to flow.
         j.   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corps of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6:
         a.   The following activities (not involving fill or positive change
in grade) are covered by this permit:
            (1)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or
septic tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
            (2)   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structures.
            (3)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures.
            (4)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports.
            (5)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
            (6)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are
made to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7:
         a.   Any outfall structure, including any head wall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         b.   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour velocity
of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the use of
riprap or other design measures.
         c.   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         d.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8:
         a.   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of the
river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         b.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         c.   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act 1 , shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
         d.   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9:
         a.   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. "Urban
areas" are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         b.   In addition to the materials listed in subsection A8a of this
section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas
provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         c.   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 2 .
         d.   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         e.   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         f.   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         g.   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of the
bank.
         h.   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full width
and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe of
the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         i.   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         j.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         k.   In the case of sea walls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing sea wall(s)
or gabion structure(s), and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         l.   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, and shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10:
         a.   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with the
requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         b.   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         c.   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property, and
         d.   Must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         e.   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within fifty feet
(50') of the bank of the stream channel.
         f.   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         g.   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing structure
shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         h.   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11:
         a.   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
         b.   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel, and
         c.   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         d.   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than ten
percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per
linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         e.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12:
         a.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure, and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         b.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         c.   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         d.   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit number 9 (minor shoreline, channel and
streambank protection activities) or statewide permit number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities).
         e.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13:
         a.   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         b.   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         c.   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         d.   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         e.   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or stream
channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents that
the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition number
3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum,
confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the backwater
induced by the temporary structure.
         f.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         g.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         h.   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
6-5-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
6-5-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
6-5-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
         e.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
         f.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
         g.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
         h.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with
these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation's wall must not exceed
four feet (4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Be entirely supported by jacks, or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The city council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of sections
6-5-6 and
6-5-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
6-5-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
6-5-6 and
 6-5-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
6-5-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-
2009)
6-5-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the city of Nauvoo shall notify adjacent communities in writing
thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the city council for a
variance. The city council shall review the applicant's request for a variance
and shall submit its recommendation to the mayor. The city council may attach
such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
intent of this chapter.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all
of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   The city council shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance
from the requirements of the building protection standards of section
6-5-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
6-5-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
6-5-6 and
6-5-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city of Nauvoo or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the mayor may determine that
a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The city attorney
shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city of Nauvoo shall make application to the circuit court for
an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order
as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   The city of Nauvoo shall record a notice of violation on the title
of the property.
   B.   The city attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
The city attorney is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension of
the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing, indicate the
reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary, to resolve
the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the city council. Written notice of such hearing shall be
served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the city council shall
determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the city of Nauvoo from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-
13-2009)
6-5-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city of
Nauvoo to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program.
However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance
adopted to achieve eligibility in the program, and it does not repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-15: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed severable, and the
invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
6-5-16: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication as required by law. (Ord. 2009-4, 10-13-2009)
NA367   6-6
CHAPTER 6
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Building Codes Adopted
6-6-2: Exemptions (Rep. by Ord. 2004-18, 7-12-2005)
6-6-3: Applicability
6-6-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
The following building codes are adopted by the city of Nauvoo, Illinois:
International building code, 2000 edition, as published by the International
Code Council;
International building code, appendix C, group "U" - agricultural buildings, of
said code and publisher;
International fuel gas code, 2000 edition, as published by the International
Code Council;
International fuel gas code, appendices A, B, C, of said code and publisher;
National electrical code NFPA 70, 1999 edition, as published by the national
fire protection agency;
National electrical code NFPA 70, appendices B and C, of said code and
publisher;
International residential code, 2000 edition, as published by the International
Code Council;
International residential code, appendices E, H, J and K, of said code and
publisher. (Ord. 2004-18, 7-12-2005)
6-6-2: EXEMPTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2004-18, 7-12-2005)
6-6-3: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of the codes hereinabove adopted would apply to new construction
and existing buildings and structures upon remodeling. (Ord. 2003-13, 7-13-
2004)
CHAPTER 7
ADDRESS NUMBERS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Address Numbers On Buildings
6-7-1: ADDRESS NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS:
To provide for the safety of the citizens and visitors to the city of Nauvoo,
to facilitate emergency services arriving as efficiently as possible, every
building with a use and occupancy classification shall be designated by
affixing the street address numbers to the building.
The address numbers shall be a minimum height of three inches (3") of Roman
block type font in contrasting color done in a professional type manner as to
be clearly visible from the roadway. Any bushes, shrubs or other obstructions
shall be of a size as not to interfere with the visibility of the numbers on
the building.
In cases where the building is such a distance from the roadway, or in the
outdoor museum district, a final determination shall be made by the public
safety committee as to whether a post shall be so placed at the end of the
driveway with such numbers affixed to the side so that the numbers are visible
from either direction. The numbers on the post shall be no lower to the ground
than thirty two inches (32") or higher from the ground than forty eight inches
(48").
In the outdoor museum district, a plaque with the street address numbers may be
placed underneath the sign or plaque which designates the name of the building.
In cases of mobile homes in a mobile home park, each individual mobile home
shall have a lot number securely affixed to the side of the mobile home that
faces the roadway. The numbers shall be no less than three inches (3") in
height of Roman block type font done in a professional type manner and clearly
visible from the roadway.
In the case of apartment buildings, the apartment building itself shall have
address numbers in a professional type manner so as to be clearly visible from
the roadway and at a minimum height of three inches (3") of Roman block type
font, and the individual interior door shall have an apartment number at least
three inches (3") in height and of contrasting color affixed to the exterior of
the apartment door which shall correspond to the current 911 address for the
apartment.
In the case of the temple house village, each exterior building shall have a
number at least three inches (3") in height and of contrasting color and shall
be numbered as if each individual location was an apartment.
In cases of RV parks, each lot shall be numbered with a lot number no less than
three inches (3") in height and of contrasting color on a post no less than
twenty four inches (24") in height placed in a location as to clearly define
each lot/site. A site map containing the name of the RV campground and lot
numbering system shall be furnished to each of the emergency services in the
city of Nauvoo. This shall not include the Nauvoo state park camping area.
This section shall become effective sixty (60) days after passing. Any
individual, partnership, firm, corporation, business, lessee, or person
responsible for the property shall be fined five dollars ($5.00) per day after
a seven (7) day notice has been given to the occupant that the property is in
noncompliance with this section. (Ord. 2006-3, 11-14-2006)
TITLE 7
FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
Fireworks   1
Fire Prevention And Safety Requirements For Bed And Breakfast And Guesthouse
Establishments   2
CHAPTER 1
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Fireworks Restricted
7-1-1: FIREWORKS RESTRICTED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away firecrackers,
fireworks of any kind whatsoever, or any toy pistol designed, intended or made
for the explosion of any percussion cap or other explosive material or thing.
Any person who shall violate this provision shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Any person who shall set off or discharge any cracker, torpedo, rocket,
squib or other fireworks, without the permission of the mayor, who shall
designate the time and place the same shall be done, shall be fined in any sum
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred twenty five
dollars ($125.00) for each offense. (Ord. XXXIX, 9-18-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR BED AND BREAKFAST AND GUESTHOUSE
ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Compliance Required
7-2-2: Minimum Requirements
7-2-3: Smoke And Carbon Monoxide Detectors
7-2-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED 1 :
No person or entity shall operate a bed and breakfast or guest suite
establishment unless that lodging establishment complies with the fire
prevention and safety requirements of the state of Illinois. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the owner of such an establishment for which a special use
permit is in effect as of the effective date of this chapter shall have until
May 1, 2012, to comply with the requirements of this chapter, unless a
different compliance date is required by state law. (Ord. 2011-4, 12-13-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 60/1 et seq.; 430 ILCS 135/1 et seq. See also title 4, chapter 9
  of this code.
7-2-2: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
A bed and breakfast and guest suite establishment shall meet the requirements
of the most current edition of the NFPA 101 life safety code and the additional
requirements set forth in this chapter. In buildings where a guest suite is not
the only use, the other use(s) shall meet the NFPA requirements applicable to
that use. (Ord. 2011-4, 12-13-2011)
7-2-3: SMOKE AND CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS:
Smoke detectors shall be installed as follows: one in each guestroom used for
sleeping purposes; one in each hallway or corridor on each floor; one in each
living room or lounge area; one in each dining room; and one in the basement
and in each workshop area.
Carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed in rooms used for sleeping
purposes if fossil fuels are used to provide heating, cooling, or hot water, if
a garage is attached to the building, or if other nearby sources emit carbon
monoxide. (Ord. 2011-4, 12-13-2011)
TITLE 8
POLICE REGULATIONS
General Offenses   1
Dogs   2
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Disorderly Conduct
8-1-2: Assault And Battery, Fighting
8-1-3: Unlawful Assemblages
8-1-4: Impersonate Public Officers
8-1-5: Offenses Concerning Alcoholic Liquors
8-1-6: Offenses Against Public Morals
8-1-7: Throwing Stones
8-1-8: Offenses Involving Animals
8-1-9: Riding Or Driving On Sidewalks
8-1-10: Offenses Concerning Weapons
8-1-11: Theft
8-1-12: Vagrants
8-1-13: Destruction Of Cemetery Property
8-1-14: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted
8-1-15: Penalty
8-1-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Be guilty of any noisy or riotous conduct, or to engage in any quarrel,
or to use any profane, abusive, indecent language, or to make any loud or
unusual noise or sound in any street, thoroughfare or other place within the
corporate limits of the City, so as to disturb the peace and quiet of the City,
or any family or neighborhood therein. (Ord. 141, 9-4-1919; amd. Ord. 190, 4-6-
1925; 1989 Code)
   B.   Disturb any lawful assemblage of people, or any public or private
school, by rude, noisy or indecent behavior or otherwise.
   C.   Give or make any false alarm of fire. (Ord. XVII, 9-25-1899; amd. Ord.
190, 4-6-1925; 1989 Code)
8-1-2: ASSAULT AND BATTERY, FIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Commit an assault or an assault and battery on the person of another
within the City.
   B.   Challenge another to fight or threaten or traduce or use abusive
language toward another, or indulge in any other conduct toward another
calculated to provoke a disturbance of the peace. (Ord. XVII, 9-25-1899; amd.
Ord. 190, 4-6-1925; 1989 Code)
8-1-3: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more persons to assemble together to do
any unlawful act, or, being assembled together, to proceed to do any unlawful
act, to the injury of any person or the property of another, or to disturb the
peace of or terrorize other persons. (Ord. XVII, 9-25-1899; amd. Ord. 190, 4-6-
1925; 1989 Code)
8-1-4: IMPERSONATE PUBLIC OFFICERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, not being an officer of the City, to
personate himself as a police officer of the City, or other officer of the City
vested by law with police powers. (Ord. VI, Art. II, 9-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
8-1-5: OFFENSES CONCERNING ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS:
   A.   Intoxication: It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk or in a
state of intoxication on any street or thoroughfare or in any public place in
the City.
   B.   Open Bottle Law: The consumption of alcohol or beer in the City Park or
on any public sidewalk or street is prohibited. Any person violating the
provisions of this subsection is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than
thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1977-2, 3-18-1977;
amd. 1989 Code)
8-1-6: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS:
   A.   No person shall be allowed to keep an assignation house or house of
prostitution in the City, nor shall it be lawful for any person to let, lease
or rent any house or tenement in his possession in the city for the purpose of
keeping such house.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any street, alley or
avenue or in any place of resort in the city, in any disguise or in any dress
not belonging to his or her sex, or in any lewd or indecent dress; nor shall it
be lawful for any person to make any lewd or indecent exposure of his or her
person in the city.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to post up or publicly exhibit any indecent
picture, writing, character or design, or write, cut, paint, carve or engrave
on any fence, building or other structure or thing in the city, any vulgar or
obscene writing, picture, character or design. (Ord. XVII, 9-25-1899; amd. Ord.
190, 4-6-1925; 1989 Code)
8-1-7: THROWING STONES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and heedlessly throw any
stones, brickbat or other object, including eggs, from or onto or across any
street, or at any house or person within the city. (Ord. XVII, 9-25-1899; amd.
Ord. 190, 4-6-1925; 1989 Code)
8-1-8: OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to provide or keep any place for, or to
conduct or manage, any dogfight or cockfight, either for profit or amusement,
within the limits of the city. (Ord. XVII, 9-25-1899; amd. Ord. 190, 4-6-1925;
1989 Code)
8-1-9: RIDING OR DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive on any sidewalk in the
city. (Ord. XVII, 9-25-1899; amd. Ord. 190, 4-6-1925; 1989 Code)
8-1-10: OFFENSES CONCERNING WEAPONS:
   A.   No person shall be allowed, and it shall be unlawful, for any person to
fire or discharge any cannon, rifle, musket, shotgun, pistol, revolver or other
firearm, or anything that throws a projectile, within the limits of the city,
except by permission of the marshal. This subsection shall not apply to persons
shooting on their own lot for the protection of their crops.
   B.   No person shall carry concealed about his person any pistol, revolver,
dirk, knife, dagger, razor, metallic knuckles or other dangerous or deadly
weapons, or any person who shall display or flourish any such weapon in a
threatening, reckless or dangerous manner in the city. (Ord. XVII, 9-25-1899;
amd. Ord. 190, 4-6-1925; 1989 Code)
8-1-11: THEFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to pilfer any fruit, vegetables or other
thing from the garden, lot, field or premises of any person in the city. (Ord.
XVII, 9-25-1899; amd. Ord. 190, 4-6-1925; 1989 Code)
8-1-12: VAGRANTS:
All persons who are idle and dissolute, and who go about begging; all persons
who use any juggling or other unlawful games or plays; runaways; pilferers;
confidence men; common drunkards; common night walkers; lewd, wanton and
lascivious persons, in speech or behavior; common railers and brawlers, persons
who are habitually neglectful of their employment or their calling, and do not
lawfully provide for themselves, or for the support of their families; and all
persons who are idle or dissolute and who neglect all lawful business, and who
habitually misspend their time by frequenting houses of ill fame, gaming houses
or tippling shops; all persons lodging in or found in the nighttime in
outhouses, sheds, barns or unoccupied buildings or lodging in the open air, and
not giving a good account of themselves; and all persons who are known to be
thieves, burglars or pickpockets, either by their own confession or otherwise,
or by having been convicted of larceny, burglary or other crime against the
laws of the state, punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or in a
house of correction of any city, and having no lawful means of support, are
habitually found prowling around any steamboat landing, railroad depot, banking
institution, broker's office, place of amusement, auction room, store, shop or
crowded thoroughfare, car or omnibus, or at any public gathering or assembly,
or lounging about any courtroom, private dwelling house or outhouse, or are
found in any house of ill fame, gambling house, or tippling shop, shall be
deemed to be and they are declared to be vagabonds.
It shall be the duty of the city marshal, and police officers of the city to
arrest, upon view, or acting at the request of any person; provided, such a
person shall have first made a written complaint and obtained a warrant from an
officer authorized to issue one for the arrest of any such vagabond to arrest
and bring before a court of competent jurisdiction any such vagabond wherever
he may be found, for the purpose of an examination; and the said city marshal
or police officer shall then and there make complaint against such vagabond,
and the said court of competent jurisdiction shall, within thirty six (36)
hours thereafter, proceed to try the person accused of being a vagabond; and if
he pleads guilty, or if he be found guilty, said court of competent
jurisdiction may sentence the said vagabond. (Ord. 227, 9-5-1933; amd. 1989
Code)
8-1-13: DESTRUCTION OF CEMETERY PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Wilfully or maliciously cut down, break down, or otherwise destroy,
injure or damage any railing, fence or other enclosure around or thereon; or to
remove, break, injure or deface any tombstone or other stone, or any post,
plank or board, or any inscription thereon; or to cut down, destroy, injure or
remove any tree or shrub standing or growing upon either of such cemeteries.
   B.   Destroy, injure or disturb, or in any way molest any tomb, vault or
grave within any cemetery of the City, with the intention or purpose of
removing any dead body or clothing, ornament or jewel therefrom; or aid, assist
or encourage another in so doing, without the written permission of the
Cemetery Committee. (Ord. XXX, 8-15-1899; amd. 1989 Code)
8-1-14: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
The Illinois Criminal Code 1 , as passed, approved, and amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted by the City. The non-penalty provisions of the Illinois
Criminal Code - to the extent that they do not conflict with this Code - shall
be controlling within the corporate limits of the City; however, the penalties
provided by this Code shall apply. (Ord. 2013-9, 3-11-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1, et seq.
8-1-15: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2013-9, 3-11-2014)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: License Required; Tags
8-2-3: Dogs At Large
8-2-4: Notice To Owner
8-2-5: Vicious Dog; Destruction; Costs
8-2-6: Tying Dogs
8-2-7: Solid Waste Removal
8-2-8: Chasing People Or Vehicles
8-2-9: Noisy, Annoying Dogs
8-2-10: Dog Bites
8-2-11: Animal Traps
8-2-12: Fines
8-2-13: Enforcement
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, the following
terms mean:
BITE: Any puncture, laceration, abrasion, scratch, or any other break in the
skin of a human caused by a dog.
DOG: Any male or female animal of the family of Canis familiaris, whether
neutered or not.
HEARING EAR DOG: Any dog owned by a deaf or partially deaf person and which has
been properly trained to aid its owner.
IDENTIFICATION TAG: A rabies vaccination tag for dogs and a valid city license
tag for dogs.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, or harboring
one or more dogs. Any dog shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for three (3) consecutive days or more.
SEEING EYE DOG: Any dog which is a owned by a legally declared blind or
partially sighted person which has been properly trained to aid its owner.
STRAY: Any dog running at large with no indication of ownership or city tag.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog which has attacked or bitten any person without provocation,
or when a propensity to attack or bite a person exists in the opinion of the
board of health or any law enforcement officer or the same is known or should
be known by the owner, or any dog which has bitten or attacked, worried or
chased, mangled or killed any domestic animal or fowl on one previous occasion.
(Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; TAGS:
Every owner or keeper of any dog in the city shall, on or before May 1 of each
year, make application to the city clerk for a license for the privilege of so
keeping such dog within the city for the ensuing fiscal year; and shall pay for
such license the sum of three dollars ($3.00); provided, that if any dog shall
be brought within the city after May 1 in any year, such application and the
fee therefor shall be made at the time the dog is so brought within the city.
Upon receipt of such application and written proof of current inoculation
against rabies as well as the appropriate fee, the clerk shall issue a
distinctive device, hereinafter referred to as a "tag", evidencing the issuance
of such license and identifying the dog and owner thereof for which it was
issued; and shall enter on a register maintained for such purposes, a
memorandum of the issuance of such license for such year, the name of the owner
or keeper, a description of the dog, and the number of the tag; provided, that
if an owner or keeper shall make affidavit to the clerk that such tag has been
lost and shall tender a fee of two dollars ($2.00), the clerk shall issue a
substitute tag and make appropriate entry in such register. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-
14-1997)
8-2-3: DOGS AT LARGE:
   A.   Any dog running at large, at any time, within the limits of the city,
and not bearing a tag or other identifying device, is hereby declared a
nuisance, and shall be impounded by a representative authorized by the city
council to so act at the Hancock County pound in Carthage, Hancock County,
Illinois; and, as such dog running at large shall be within the jurisdiction of
said county pound in Carthage and shall be disposed of accordingly.
   B.   Any dog running at large, at any time, within the limits of the city,
bearing a tag issued by the city clerk, is hereby declared a nuisance and shall
be restrained and impounded by a representative authorized by the city council
to so act. The city shall give notice to the registered owner or keeper that
said dog has been impounded by a representative authorized by the council to so
act, and after said dog's impoundment at the county pound in Carthage, Hancock
County, Illinois, for a period of time to be determined by the county, said dog
shall be within the jurisdiction of said Hancock County pound and disposed of
accordingly.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public place unless such dog has a collar firmly
attached around his neck with a license tag for the current year attached to
such collar, as well as a leash attached to said collar of sufficient size and
strength to control and maintain said dog while on the public street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-4: NOTICE TO OWNER:
The notice described in subsection
8-2-3B of this chapter may be given orally to the registered owner or keeper or
to any member of his household above the age of ten (10) years; and upon
claiming an impounded dog, the owner or keeper shall pay to the city clerk a
charge of twenty dollars ($20.00) for the impoundment of said dog; further,
said owner or keeper shall be responsible for any costs that may accrue to the
Hancock County pound in Carthage, Illinois, as a result of said dog being
impounded in Carthage, Illinois. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-5: VICIOUS DOG; DESTRUCTION; COSTS:
Any vicious dog which attacks a human being or other domestic animal on
personal or public property or attacks a vehicle, may be ordered destroyed if
the court determines that the animal represents a continuing threat to the
community. In addition, any expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary
expenses for boarding, or expenses incurred by the procedure of the dog or the
destruction of the dog shall be paid by the person found guilty of violating
this section. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-6: TYING DOGS:
No owner shall permit or allow his or her dog to be tied by any person to a
utility pole, parking meter, building, structure, fence, sign, tree, shrub,
bush, or other object on public property or tied on private property without
the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. This section shall not
apply to seeing eye dogs or hearing dogs while such dogs are acting in such
capacity. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-7: SOLID WASTE REMOVAL:
Any person who shall walk a dog on public or private property shall provide for
the proper disposal of the solid waste deposited by the dog by means of
immediate removal of the waste into a container device which is capable of
receiving and containing waste material therein. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-8: CHASING PEOPLE OR VEHICLES:
No owner shall permit or allow his or her dog to run after or chase persons,
bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-9: NOISY, ANNOYING DOGS:
No owner shall allow or permit his or her dog to cause serious annoyance or
disturbances to a person or persons by frequent and habitual howling, whining,
yelping, barking, yelling, or any other type of noise. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-
1997)
8-2-10: DOG BITES:
   A.   The owner of any dog, which has bitten or attacked any person, or any
person having knowledge of such bite or attack, shall immediately report such
fact to the city marshal or assistant marshal. The report shall include name
and address of the person bitten or attacked, and if known, time and location
of the bite or attack, description of the dog, and name and address of the
owner of such dog.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every physician or nurse to immediately inform
the city marshal or assistant, followed within twenty four (24) hours with a
written report, of the name and address of any person treated for bites
inflicted by a dog, together with such other information as will assist in the
prevention of rabies or other disease and the identification and apprehension
of the biting dog.
   C.   Upon demand by the city marshal or assistant, the owner shall forthwith
surrender any dog which has bitten or attacked any person, for supervised
quarantine in the dog control center at the expense of the owner. The dog shall
remain confined for a minimum period of fourteen (14) days, under the
observation of a licensed veterinarian.
   D.   When evidence is presented that such dog is currently inoculated
against rabies, the city marshal or assistant, at his discretion, may give
written order to confine the dog in the home of its owner, or in such a manner
so as to prohibit the dog from coming into contact with or biting any other
person or animal, for a minimum of fourteen (14) days; provided, however, that
the owner is willing to comply with the terms of the order and the owner has
the means to adequately confine the dog. It shall be unlawful for any owner to
fail to comply with such an order.
   E.   Any dog which has bitten or attacked any person shall be examined by a
licensed veterinarian and a written report of the dog's clinical condition
shall be forwarded to the city marshal or assistant within twenty four (24)
hours.
   F.   At the end of the confinement period, the veterinarian shall reexamine
the dog and submit to the city marshal or assistant a written report of the
dog's final clinical condition, recommending whether or not the quarantine
should be terminated.
   G.   No owner of any dog known to have bitten any person shall euthanize,
sell, give away or transport from this city, or otherwise dispose of such dog,
until written release from the required quarantine for such dog is obtained
from the city marshal or assistant.
   H.   All expenses incurred in the confinement and reexamination of any dog,
pursuant to the provisions of this section, shall be borne by the owner of such
dog. (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-11: ANIMAL TRAPS:
No person may set traps in the city for the purpose of apprehending wild or
domesticated animals. This section does not prohibit trapping mice, rats, or
other household vermin or the setting of traps to destroy moles or other
underground pests so long as the traps used may be triggered only by subsurface
action. Wild animals may be trapped by permission of the city council only.
(Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-12: FINES:
   A.   The civil and criminal provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by
the city marshal or other law enforcement officers. It shall be a violation of
this chapter to interfere with, hinder, molest or abuse any officer in the
exercise of such powers.
   B.   Any owner or keeper of a dog who knowingly permits the existence of a
nuisance as declared in section
8-2-3 of this chapter or who violates any provision of this chapter, and upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than thirty five dollars
($35.00) for the first offense, seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the second
offense, and for each offense thereafter, double the amount of the previous
fine.
   C.   Any person other than the owner or keeper who shall remove a tag from
any dog or shall entice or decoy any dog out of any house or enclosed premises
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than thirty five dollars ($35.00) nor more than seventy five
dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
8-2-13: ENFORCEMENT:
The city council may, from time to time, make further provision for the
impounding of animals; and the mayor may, from time to time hereafter, with the
consent of the council, appoint assistant marshals to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-3, 10-14-1997)
TITLE 9
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
General Traffic Regulations   1
Parking Regulations   2
Bicycles   3
Truck Route   4
Bus Route   5
Traffic Schedules   6
Inoperable And Unlicensed Vehicles   7
Impounded Vehicles   8
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Driving Vehicles On Public Ways
9-1-3: Driving Through Processions
9-1-4: Vehicles Not To Obstruct Traffic
9-1-5: Age Limits For Drivers
9-1-6: Vehicle Equipment
9-1-7: Obeying Officers And Traffic Control Signs And Signals
9-1-8: Speed Limits
9-1-9: Driving In Careless Or Disorderly Manner
9-1-10: Racing Automobiles
9-1-11: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
9-1-12: Penalty
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONGESTED DISTRICT: That part of the City described as follows: Mulholland
Street from Wells Street east to Wilcox Street, Bluff Street from Mulholland
Street north to Knight Street, and Page Street from White Street north to
Knight Street.
DRIVER: The rider and driver of a horse or horses, the rider of wheels, the
operator of motor vehicles.
HISTORICAL DISTRICT: That part of the City described as follows: Water Street
from Durphy to Bain Streets, Bain Street from Water to White Streets, White
Street from Bain to Durphy Streets, Durphy Street from White to Water Streets.
HORSES: All domestic animals.
VEHICLE: Equestrians, led horses, carts, drays, omnibuses, carriages, buggies,
wagons, motor vehicles, automobiles, motorcycles, and all other vehicles used
for transporting persons or property on the public streets, however drawn,
driven or propelled, except carts, carriages and barrows propelled by hand.
(Ord. 129, 9-5-1916; amd. 1991; Ord. 1993-5, 1-11-1994)
9-1-2: DRIVING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Careful Driving: Vehicles shall be driven in a careful manner and with
due regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians, also of other
vehicles.
   B.   Driving On Right: Vehicles shall keep to the right side of the center
of the street.
   C.   Slow Vehicles: Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible
to the curb on the right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage to
the left.
   D.   Turning Movements:
      1.   Vehicles turning to the left into an intersecting street shall pass
and turn the corner as near to the right hand curb as possible.
      2.   Vehicles turning to the left into an intersecting street shall pass
to the right of and beyond the center of the street intersection before
turning.
   E.   Meeting Vehicles: Vehicles meeting shall pass each other to the right.
   F.   Passing: A vehicle overtaking another vehicle traveling in the same
direction shall keep to the left of the overtaken vehicle in passing.
   G.   Backing To Turn: No vehicle shall back to make a turn in any street if
by so doing it interferes with other vehicles, but shall go around the block or
to a street sufficiently wide to turn without backing.
   H.   Crossing Street: Vehicles crossing from one side of the street to the
other shall do so by turning to the left so as to head in the same direction as
the traffic on that side of the street toward which the crossing is made, and
when the street is congested with traffic, such vehicles shall go to the
intersection before turning, and no vehicle shall stop with its left side to
the curb. (Ord. 129, 9-5-1916)
   I.   Backing To Curb: No vehicle shall remain backed up to the curb except
when such vehicle is actually loading or unloading, and in such case no longer
than the actual loading or unloading requires. (Ord. 129, 9-5-1916; amd. 1989
Code)
   J.   Waiting At Curb: A vehicle waiting at the curb shall promptly give
place to a vehicle about to take on or let off passengers.
   K.   Stopping On Street: No vehicle shall stop on any street, except in an
emergency, unless within six inches (6") of the curb, nor in such a way as to
obstruct the free passage of other vehicles.
   L.   Stopping Near Intersections: No vehicle shall stop or stand within any
street intersection nor within ten feet (10') of the line of any intersecting
street in the congested district, nor outside of said district for a longer
period than is necessary to load and unload.
   M.   Signal From Officer: The driver of any vehicle shall stop upon the
signal from a police officer.
   N.   Signals From Drivers: The driver or operator of every motor vehicle
shall give some plainly visible or audible sign to other approaching vehicles
before stopping. Drivers and operators of motor vehicles shall, in approaching
or traversing a crossing or street intersection, have their vehicles under
control, and shall give warning to other vehicles and to pedestrians of their
approach.
   O.   Running Motors: No motor vehicle shall be left standing in any street
with the motor running unless some person competent to manage said vehicle
shall be left in charge thereof.
   P.   Vehicles Being Passed: Every person in charge of a vehicle shall pull
to the right side of the street or road when signaled from a vehicle behind
desiring to pass. (Ord. 129, 9-5-1916)
   Q.   Operation Of A Low-Speed Vehicle; Restricted Streets 1 : A low- speed
vehicle (LSV) legally operating upon a street or roadway under State law also
may operate on streets and roadways under the jurisdiction of the City of
Nauvoo that have a posted speed limit of thirty five (35) mph or less.
      1.   License Requirement: A person may not operate an LSV unless he or
she has a valid driver's license issued by the Secretary of State or by a
foreign jurisdiction.
      2.   Minimum Equipment Requirements: An LSV may not be operated within
the City limits unless the vehicle has the following equipment: a parking
brake; a steering apparatus; tires; a windshield that conforms to the Federal
vehicle safety standards on glazing materials as set forth in 49 CFR part
571.205; a vehicle identification number; seat belts; a rearview mirror; an
exterior rearview mirror mounted on the driver's side of the vehicle; red
reflectorized warning devices on each rear side and one on the center rear of
the vehicle; a headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
five hundred feet (500') to the front; a tail lamp that emits a red light
visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from the rear; brake lights; and
front and rear turn signals. It also must have a slow moving vehicle emblem at
the rear of the vehicle.
      3.   Miscellaneous Requirements:
         a.   When operated on a City street, an LSV shall have its headlight
and tail lamps lighted as required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-201.
         b.   A person shall not operate an LSV if he or she is impaired, such
as under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
         c.   A person who operates an LSV must carry any vehicle insurance
required by State law. Documentation of valid insurance must be submitted to
the City at the time of initial registration of the vehicle and at the time of
permit renewal.
         d.   An owner or operator of an LSV must meet all other State and
local requirements.
      4.   Yearly Registration/Permit Requirements; Vehicle Inspection: A
person who intends to operate an LSV on Nauvoo streets and roadways shall first
have it inspected by the Chief of Police (or his designee) to determine whether
the operator and the vehicle have met all State and local requirements. He or
she then shall register it with the City and obtain a yearly permit for its
operation. The permit shall be visibly displayed on the slow moving vehicle
placard at the rear of the vehicle.
Vehicles are subject to re-inspection at any time at the discretion of the
Chief of Police or the City Council.
The LSV permit shall be valid from May 1 of the current year through April 30
of the following year. The annual permit fee, per vehicle, shall be set by the
City Council. The annual fee may be reviewed as needed and changed by a
majority vote of the City Council at any regular or special meeting.
      5.   Violations; Penalties: A violation of this subsection Q shall be
punishable by a fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the first offense and
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the second offense in a 12-month
period. A person charged with a third offense in a 12-month period shall have
his or her permit permanently revoked and shall pay a fine of three hundred
dollars ($300.00).
   R.   Operation Of Certain Non-Highway Vehicles 2 : It shall be unlawful for
any person to operate a non-highway vehicle on any street or roadway within the
City of Nauvoo, except as expressly authorized in this subsection.
      1.   Definition Of Non-Highway Vehicle (NHV): As used here, a non-
highway vehicle is a motor vehicle that is not specifically designed to be used
on a public highway, including a golf cart 3  and a recreational off-highway
vehicle 4 . Although an all-terrain vehicle 5  and a recreational off-highway
motorcycle 6  are often included in that definition of NHVs, those types of
NHVs are not authorized to be operated on Nauvoo streets or roadways.
      2.   Restricted Streets: The NHV may be operated only on City streets and
roadways where the posted speed limit is thirty five (35) mph or less.
      3.   Restricted Crossing Of State Highway: A person operating a NHV may
cross a State highway (such as Mulholland Street) but may do so only at Parley
Street, Wilcox Street, and Bluff Street.
      4.   License Requirement: A person may not operate a NHV unless he or she
has a valid driver's license issued by the Secretary of State or by a foreign
jurisdiction.
      5.   Minimum Equipment Requirements: A NHV may not be operated within the
City limits unless the vehicle has the following equipment: brakes; a steering
apparatus; tires; a rearview mirror; red reflectorized warning devices in the
front and rear; a slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the vehicle 7 ; a
headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the front; a tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least
one hundred feet (100') from the rear; brake lights; turn signals; and seat
belts.
      6.   Miscellaneous Requirements:
         a.   An operator of a NHV must use seatbelts in accordance with 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-603.1 and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/
1 et seq., and with any other applicable State laws.
         b.   When operated on a roadway, a NHV shall have its headlight and
tail lamps lighted as required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-201.
         c.   A person shall not operate a NHV if he or she is impaired, such
as under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
         d.   A person who operates a NHV must carry any vehicle insurance
required by State law. Documentation of valid insurance must be submitted to
the City at the time of initial registration of the vehicle and at the time of
permit renewal.
      7.   Yearly Registration/Permit Requirements; Vehicle Inspection: A
person who intends to operate a NHV on Nauvoo streets and roadways shall first
have it inspected by the Chief of Police (or his designee) to determine whether
the operator and the vehicle have met all State and local requirements. He or
she then shall register it with the City and obtain a yearly permit for its
operation. The permit shall be visibly displayed on the slow moving vehicle
placard at the rear of the vehicle.
Vehicles are subject to re-inspection at any time at the discretion of the
Chief of Police or the City Council.
The NHV permit shall be valid from May 1 of the current year through April 30
of the following year. The annual permit fee, per vehicle, shall be set by the
City Council. The annual fee may be reviewed as needed and changed by a
majority vote of the City Council at any regular or special meeting.
      8.   Violations; Penalties: A violation of this subsection R shall be
punishable by a fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the first offense and
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the second offense in a 12-month
period. A person charged with a third offense in a 12-month period shall have
his or her permit permanently revoked and shall pay a fine of three hundred
dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 2018-5, 9-11-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. This subsection Q is based upon 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.2, which relates to the
  operation of low-speed vehicles on streets.
2 1. This subsection R is based upon 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1, which relates to the
  operation of non-highway vehicles on streets, roads, and highways.
3 2. As defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-123.9.
4 3. As defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-168.8.
5 4. As defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-101.8.
6 5. As defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-153.1.
7 1. As required of other vehicles in 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
9-1-3: DRIVING THROUGH PROCESSIONS:
No vehicle, as herein provided, shall be driven through a procession, except
with the permission of a police officer. (Ord. 129, 9-5-1916)
9-1-4: VEHICLES NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC:
No vehicle shall be allowed to remain in, upon or be driven through any street
of the City so as to wilfully blockade or obstruct the said street. (Ord. 129,
9-5-1916)
9-1-5: AGE LIMITS FOR DRIVERS:
The allowable age for driving vehicles within the City limits, including
vehicles for hire, shall be the age set by the State of Illinois and/or the
Illinois Secretary of State. (Ord. 2013-6, 10-8-2013)
9-1-6: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every motor vehicle shall carry during the period from sunset to one
hour before sunrise at least two (2) lighted lamps, showing white lights
visible at least two hundred feet (200') in the direction toward which the
motor vehicle is proceeding. Such lights shall be dimmed or so arranged as not
to throw a blinding light in any direction. Every motor vehicle, except
motorcycles, shall also exhibit two (2) lighted lamps, which shall be so
situated as to throw a red light visible from the back of the vehicle. The
identification number at the back of the vehicle shall be permanently attached
to the vehicle so that it will not swing loosely and shall be so lighted as to
be plainly visible. Such lights shall be kept burning when any motor vehicle is
standing on any public street or alley. (Ord. 129, 9-5-1916; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Every automobile, motor vehicle or motorcycle, while being upon
streets, alleys and public places of the City, shall be provided with a
suitable brake; and shall be provided with a suitable bell or horn, or other
signal device; and it shall be unlawful for any person operating an automobile,
motor vehicle or motorcycle to make or cause to be made any loud or unnecessary
noise with any such bell, horn or other signal device, or to use such bell,
horn or other signal device, except as a warning of danger.
   C.   No person operating any automobile, motor vehicle or motorcycle shall
permit the pipes, "muffler" or other device to emit sounds of exhaust in a loud
and annoying manner, and all such automobiles, motor vehicles and motorcycles
shall be operated in as noiseless a manner as possible. No person operating any
automobile, motor vehicle or motorcycle shall permit the motor of the same to
operate in such a manner as to visibly emit an unduly great amount of steam,
smoke or products of combustion from exhaust pipes or openings. (Ord. 129, 9-5-
1916; amd. 1989 Code)
9-1-7: OBEYING OFFICERS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Drivers of vehicles must, at all times, comply with any direction, by
voice or hand, of any member of the police force, as to place, speed, or
stopping, starting, approaching, or pulling from any place, the manner of
taking out or setting down passengers or loading or unloading goods at any
place.
   B.   Drivers of vehicles must, at all times, comply with the instructions of
any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the City Council or
in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois. All signs established by
direction of the City Council shall conform to the State standards for traffic
signs or signals. (Ord. 1993-5, 1-11-1994)
9-1-8: SPEED LIMITS:
The rate of speed of motor vehicles and motorbikes, when operated upon any of
the public streets of the City, where the same pass through the closely built
up portion of the City, shall not exceed twenty five (25) miles per hour; or
where the street passes through the residence portion of the City, the rate of
speed shall not exceed thirty (30) miles per hour, except as posted; or where
the street passes through the Historical District of the City, the rate of
speed shall not exceed twenty (20) miles per hour, except as otherwise posted.
(Ord. 1993-5, 1-11-1994)
The rate of speed of motor vehicles and motor bicycles operated on Winchester
Street of the City shall not exceed thirty five (35) miles per hour. (Ord.
2002-11, 11-12-2002)
9-1-9: DRIVING IN CARELESS OR DISORDERLY MANNER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful, within the City limits, for any person operating
a motor vehicle to, at any time, spin, slide or squeal its tires in the
operation of such motor vehicle. For purposes of this section "squeal" is
defined as any audible noise caused by sliding or spinning tires. For purposes
of this section, a "motor vehicle" is any vehicle required to be licensed by
the State of Illinois. Any such conduct shall be known as disorderly conduct
and shall constitute a misdemeanor, and upon conviction be subject to a fine of
not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   It shall be unlawful, within the City limits, for any person operating
a motor vehicle to operate or drive such vehicle in a careless manner. For
purposes of this section, "careless driving" is defined as any driving in a
careless or negligent manner so as to unnecessarily or neglectfully endanger
life or property. For purposes of this section, a "motor vehicle" is any
vehicle required to be licensed by the State of Illinois. Any such conduct
shall be known as disorderly conduct and shall constitute a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 1978-1, 2-6-1978)
9-1-10: RACING AUTOMOBILES:
No racing by automobiles or trucks or motorcycles shall be allowed on any
street in the City, and any person who shall engage in any race with any motor
driven vehicle shall be guilty of an offense and, on conviction therefor, shall
forfeit and pay to the City not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 287, 11-5-1945; amd. 1989 Code; 1991)
9-1-11: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The Illinois Vehicle Code 1 , as passed, approved, and amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted by the City. The provisions of the Illinois Vehicle
Code shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the City; however, the
penalties provided by this Code shall apply. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100, et seq.
9-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the rules, regulations, or provisions of this
title, unless otherwise provided, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the maximum fine imposed by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1 (currently $750.00) per offense and may be required
to pay related fees and costs, including fees for the towing and/or storage of
towed or impounded vehicles. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Time Limit Parking
9-2-2: Loading And Unloading Zones
9-2-3: Parking For Handicapped Persons
9-2-4: No Parking
9-2-1: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   Fifteen Minute Parking: From and after the effective date of hereof, it
shall be unlawful for parking to occur for longer than a fifteen (15) minute
period at the following locations:
      The east side of Bluff Street, from the alley south of City Hall to
Knight Street, with the exception of two (2) parking stalls south of Knight
Street which are reserved for employee parking.
   The city shall place signs notifying the general public, in the area
described in this subsection, of the authorized parking areas, but the city may
cause to be placed yellow curb marking or some other type of markings
appropriate for safety.
   Violation of this subsection shall result in a thirty five dollar ($35.00)
fine being assessed against the person or persons found to have violated this
subsection, along with any and all allowable fees and court costs.
   B.   United States Post Office, Ten Minute Parking: Within thirty (30) days
after the effective date hereof, in accordance with law, the city shall place a
yellow curb marking or appropriate sign on Barnett Street, upon the side of the
street nearest to the entranceway of the United States post office, said yellow
curb marking or appropriate sign to continue for approximately forty feet (40')
as the city council shall direct.
   An appropriate number of signs or signals shall be placed as near to the
edge of such yellow curb marking that is practical, notifying the general
public that the area described between such signs and generally described by
the yellow marking upon the curb on Barnett Street shall authorize and permit
vehicular parking for ten (10) minutes only, per vehicle.
   From and after the date of such publication, it shall be unlawful for
parking to occur for longer than a ten (10) minute period in the area marked by
yellow curb marking and more fully described and designated between the
standing signs or signals referred to above.
   Violation of this subsection shall result in a twenty five dollar ($25.00)
fine being assessed against the person found to have violated this subsection
along with any and all necessary court costs therein.
   C.   One Hour Parking: From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be
unlawful for parking to occur for longer than a one hour period at the
following locations:
      On the west side of Bluff Street between Mulholland Street and Knight
Street.
      On the west side of Wells Street between Mulholland Street and Knight
Street.
   The city shall place signs notifying the general public in the area
described in this subsection one hour parking shall be authorized and allowed
per vehicle but the city may cause to be placed yellow curb marking or any
other type of marking appropriate for safety.
   Violation of this subsection shall result in a five dollar ($5.00) fine
being assessed against the person or persons found to have violated this
subsection along with any and all necessary court costs therein. (Ord. 1983,
10-3-1983; Ord. 1990-7, 3-12-1991; Ord. 2004-5, 7-13-2004; Ord. 2019-2, 7-9-
2019)
9-2-2: LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES:
   A.   Authority: The city council may from time to time designate certain no
parking zones which shall be so designated for the express purpose of
authorizing the loading and unloading of products, wares or inventory, as the
case may be, with said no parking zones established adjacent to the city's
streets or highways, as shall be determined from time to time hereafter by the
chairman of the streets, buildings and grounds committee of the city council.
(Ord. 1985-1, 8-5-1985; amd. Ord. 2008-13, 4-28-2009)
   B.   Signs Posted: The city council may from time to time hereafter place
such markings, signs or other indication informing the general public as to the
location of the no parking zone as well as the times established for that no
parking zone, and further providing notice of penalty for failure to comply
with the terms and conditions of this section.
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to promptly notify the superintendent of
streets as to any areas designated as a no parking zone within the city limits.
The superintendent of streets shall then place an appropriate sign or other
indication of the no parking zone, in a clear and visible manner, which said
sign or other indication shall become immediately subject to the traffic laws
of the city or state of Illinois, as the case may be.
   C.   Violation And Penalties: It shall hereinafter be deemed a violation of
this section for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle at any time
designated herein as a no parking zone, except when to avoid conflicts with
other traffic, or in compliance with the direction of the duly authorized
police officer or official traffic control device, or as otherwise permitted
herein. Any person who shall violate any provision of this section shall, in
addition to any other relief the law may afford, be subject to a punishment by
a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) or less than fifteen dollars
($15.00), and each day such violation is permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense, and any person violating a provision hereof shall promptly
be issued a citation or notice of violation charging such offense. Such
citation or notice of violation shall be in a form prescribed by the city
marshal and shall advise such person that a penalty for such violation may at
the discretion of such person be paid to the city clerk within seven (7) days
of the date of such citation or notice of violation. Such penalty shall be
fifteen dollars ($15.00) if so paid. In the event such penalty is timely paid,
that payment shall be in full satisfaction of any penalty for such violation.
In the event that such payment is not made within the time prescribed, a
complaint shall be initiated by the city marshal or other appropriate person or
by information initiated by the city attorney before a court of proper
jurisdiction charging such offense. (Ord. 1985-1, 8-5-1985)
9-2-3: PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "handicapped
person" shall mean and include every natural person who has permanently lost
the use of a leg or both legs or an arm or both arms or any combination
thereof; is so severely disabled as to be unable to move without the aid of
crutches, wheelchair or prosthetics; because of old age, physical incapacity or
imperfection or deterioration is unable to move or walk without great
discomfort, or a physician duly licensed in the state of Illinois to practice
medicine or surgery in all of its branches has determined that said person
would benefit from being classified as a handicapped person under the
provisions of this section to relieve conditions resulting from old age,
physical incapacity or imperfection or deterioration.
   B.   Vehicle Requirements: A vehicle shall be designated as being operated
by or for a handicapped person if either of the conditions of this subsection
are complied with:
      1.   If such vehicle bears registration plates specified in paragraph 11-
1301.1 (pertaining to handicapped persons' parking exemptions), paragraph 3-609
(pertaining to disabled veterans), or paragraph 3-616 (pertaining to physically
handicapped persons), or other comparable provisions of the Illinois vehicle
code 1 .
      2.   Within the city, the Illinois vehicle code 2  shall be followed.
   C.   Parking Space Requirements: A parking space shall be designated as
being for a handicapped person if the conditions of this subsection are
complied with: (Ord. 2007-6, 9-11-2007)
      1.   The city council may from time to time designate parking spaces as
being parking spaces for handicapped person parking only. The chairman of the
streets, buildings and grounds committee of the city council or designee, in
his discretion, and when traffic conditions warrant, may further designate
specific parking spaces as being handicapped person parking only. Such parking
spaces designated as herein provided shall be on property under the control and
jurisdiction of the city, including, but not limited to, streets, alleys and
parking lots. All of such parking spaces shall be referred to as general
handicapped person parking spaces. (Ord. 2007-6, 9-11-2007; amd. Ord. 2008-13,
4-28-2009)
      2.   The owner or owners of real property which is regularly used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of the owner or owners
shall, from time to time, designate specific parking spaces on such real
property as being parking spaces for handicapped person parking only. All such
parking spaces shall also be referred to as general handicapped person parking
spaces and shall comply with section
10-3-7 of this code.
      3.   Restricted parking for handicapped persons may from time to time be
established as herein provided. All such restricted parking shall be restricted
to or for the use of the specific handicapped person or persons designated when
established, under the following conditions: (Ord. 2007-6, 9-11-2007)
         a.   Any person who owns or operates a vehicle designated pursuant to
the provisions herein, may apply for a parking space restricted to parking for
or by a designated handicapped person or persons only. Such application shall
be filed with the city clerk (and may be filed in conjunction with an
application for a handicapped person sticker as provided hereinabove). The
application, upon receipt, shall be reviewed by the chairman of the streets,
buildings and grounds committee, or his designee, to determine whether the
designation of a restricted parking space would adversely affect traffic
conditions in the city or be contrary to the traffic laws of the city or the
state of Illinois.
         b.   In the event the city clerk determines the application is in
proper form and the chairman of the streets, buildings and grounds committee,
or his designee, determines that a restricted parking space would not adversely
affect traffic conditions in the city or would not be contrary to the traffic
conditions in the city or would not be contrary to the traffic laws of the city
or the state of Illinois, a restricted parking space shall be established. All
such parking spaces shall be referred to as restricted handicapped person
parking spaces. (Ord. 2007-6, 9-11-2007; amd. Ord. 2008-13, 4-28-2009)
         c.   All restricted parking spaces established hereunder shall be
limited to spaces immediately in front of and adjacent to real property owned
or occupied by the handicapped person or persons.
         d.   The city clerk shall promptly notify the superintendent of
streets of any restricted parking spaces established. The superintendent shall
place an appropriate sign at such location noting that such space is parking
for or by a designated handicapped person or persons only.
         e.   A fee equal to the cost of the sign and labor shall be charged
for the placement of a restricted parking sign as provided herein.
         f.   Any restricted parking spaces established hereunder shall
terminate automatically when the appropriate person's vehicle is no longer
designated as provided above.
   D.   Parking In Spaces For The Handicapped:
      1.   No persons shall stop, stand or park a vehicle at any time
designated herein as parking for handicapped persons, except when necessary to
avoid conflicts with other traffic, or in compliance with the direction of the
duly authorized police officer or official traffic control device, or as
otherwise permitted herein.
      2.   A person may stop, stand or park a vehicle at any place designated
as a general handicapped person parking space provided such vehicle bears valid
registration plates or a handicapped person sticker as provided for in this
section. Such registration plates or stickers shall not entitle a person to
stop, stand or park a vehicle in a restricted handicapped person parking space
for handicapped persons unless such space has been designated for that person.
      3.   A person may stop, stand or park a vehicle at a place designated for
that person as a restricted handicapped person parking space.
   E.   Sign Specifications: Insofar as is practical, signs utilized hereunder
shall conform with the most recent edition of the national "Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices" for streets and highways. Restricted handicapped
person parking signs, however, may simply include the words "Restricted Parking
by Permit Only", without further designation.
   F.   Penalties: Any person who shall violate any provision of this section
shall, in addition to any other relief the law may afford, be subject to a
punishment by a fine in the amount described in the Illinois vehicle code 3
and each day such violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense. Any person violating a provision hereof shall promptly be
issued a citation or notice of violation charging such offense. Such citation
or notice of violation shall be in a form prescribed by the city marshal and
shall advise such person that a penalty for such violation may at the
discretion of such person be paid to the city clerk within seven (7) days of
the date of such citation or notice of violation. Such penalty shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00) if not so paid. In the event such penalty is timely
paid, that payment shall be in full satisfaction of any penalty for such
violation. In the event that such payment is not made within the time period
prescribed, a complaint shall be initiated by the city marshal or other
appropriate person or by information initiated by the city attorney before a
court of proper jurisdiction charging such offense.
   G.   Fraudulent Use: Use of handicap placard or plates shall comply with the
Illinois vehicle code 4 . (Ord. 2007-6, 9-11-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
2 2. 625 ILCS.
3 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3.
4 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3.
9-2-4: NO PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park any
motor vehicle within the areas indicated below:
      1.   Durphy Street, from the south city limit northerly to the
intersection with Mulholland Street, except for the following, where parallel
parking is allowed:
         On the west side of Durphy Street from 4.57 meters (15 feet) south of
the south edge of pavement of Hotchkiss Street at the intersection of Hotchkiss
Street and Durphy Street southerly 33.22 meters (109 feet) and from 4.57 meters
(15 feet) south of the south edge of pavement of White Street at the
intersection of White Street and Durphy Street southerly 24.38 meters (80
feet).
      2.   Mulholland Street, from the westernmost boundary at Main Street,
easterly to the east city limit, except for the following where parallel
parking is allowed:
         On the north side of Mulholland Street from the intersection with
Wells Street easterly to the intersection with Barnett Street and from 7.62
meters (25 feet) east of the east edge of pavement of Barnett Street easterly
57.91 meters (190 feet); and
         On the south side of Mulholland Street from 54.9 meters (180 feet)
west of the west edge of pavement of Bluff Street easterly to 7.62 meters (25
feet) west of the west edge of pavement of Bluff Street and from the
intersection of Bluff Street easterly to the intersection with Barnett Street
and from 7.62 meters (25 feet) east of the east edge of Barnett Street easterly
36.58 meters (120 feet).
      3.   Mulholland Street, from Durphy Street to Main Street (in order to
accommodate truck and bus traffic).
      4.   Bluff Street, from the north side of the intersection at Knight
Street to the south side of the intersection at Young Street - no parking on
the east side of the street only.
      5.   Bluff Street, from Mulholland Street to Ripley Street.
      6.   Parley Street, from the west side adjoining Water Street to Hwy 96
(in order to accommodate bus routes).
      7.   White Street, from Main Street to Durphy Street (in order to
accommodate truck and bus traffic).
      8.   Hotchkiss Street, from Main Street to Durphy Street (in order to
accommodate truck and bus traffic).
      9.   Hubbard Street, from Durphy Street to Wells Street (in order to
accommodate truck and bus traffic).
      10.   Knight Street, between Fulmer Street and Gordon Street (in order to
accommodate truck and bus traffic).
      11.   Knight Street, from Bluff Street to Wells Street - no parking on
the north side of the street except during church times and during funerals; no
parking at any time on the south side of the street.
      12.   Main Street, from White Street to Broadway Street (in order to
accommodate truck and bus traffic).
      13.   Warsaw Street, from Mulholland to Knight Street - no parking on the
east side of the street only.
      14.   Iowa Street, from 160 feet north of Mulholland Street to Knight
Street - no parking on the east side of the street only.
      15.   Wells Street, from Cutler Street to Hubbard Street.
      16.   Wells Street, from Knight Street to Young Street - no parking on
both sides of the street except during church times and during funerals.
Parking is allowed in front of the church only where posted.
      17.   Wells Street, from Mulholland Street to Knight Street - no parking
on the east side except for the ten (10) minute loading/unloading zone located
in front of the Nauvoo Temple.
      18.   Fulmer Street, from Mulholland Street to Ripley Street.
      19.   At any other location, pursuant to the authority of the Mayor or
Nauvoo Police Department, where parking may be temporarily or permanently
restricted (or allowed) due to an emergency, natural disaster, special event,
or some other special circumstance.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than thirty five dollars ($35.00) nor more than
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense. (Ord., 11-13-1996; Ord. 2019-2, 7-9-
2019)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Licensing Requirements
9-3-2: Registration Transfer
9-3-3: Lost License
9-3-4: Alteration Of License Tag
9-3-5: Lights Required
9-3-6: Parking Bicycles
9-3-7: Riding On Sidewalks
9-3-8: Rights Of Pedestrians
9-3-9: Single File Riding
9-3-10: Observance Of Traffic Rules
9-3-11: Towing Unlawful
9-3-12: Extra Passengers
9-3-13: Out Of Proportion Bicycles
9-3-14: Improper Riding
9-3-15: Penalties
9-3-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
Every person who is a resident of or lives within the city limits who owns a
bicycle shall cause the ownership thereof to be registered with the city clerk.
Registration by citizens of Nauvoo sixteen (16) years of age or older will
receive a license/registration tag at no cost upon presenting a valid driver's
license to the city clerk.
Other citizens of Nauvoo will receive a registration tag at no charge upon
passing a written exam from the Illinois department of transportation "bicycles
rules of the road", that will exhibit knowledge of road signs and basic bicycle
operating rules, or by participation in a bicycle safety program approved by
the Nauvoo city marshal. (Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-2: REGISTRATION TRANSFER:
Upon the sale or transfer of the licensed bicycle, the original license tag
shall be transferred to the new owner or transferee, and the sale or transfer
shall be reported to the city clerk within five (5) days of the sale or
transfer. The city clerk shall note the transfer in records to be kept at the
city clerk's office. (Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-3: LOST LICENSE:
In the event the license tag is lost, destroyed, stolen, or no longer able to
remain affixed to said bicycle, the city clerk shall issue a new license tag to
the existing owner, at a fee of one dollar ($1.00) payable to the city clerk.
(Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-4: ALTERATION OF LICENSE TAG:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to alter,
damage, destroy or counterfeit any license tag issued under this chapter. (Ord.
1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-5: LIGHTS REQUIRED:
All bicycles used within the city limits shall, during the hours from sunset
until sunrise display a headlight on the forward part of the bicycle visible
from a distance of at least three hundred feet (300'), said headlight to be
stationary and securely affixed to the bicycle. There shall also be displayed
on the rear part of the bicycle a red reflector not to be smaller than one and
one- half inches (11/2") in diameter or a red light of similar size. (Ord.
1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-6: PARKING BICYCLES:
A bicycle parked on a sidewalk shall not impede the normal and reasonable
movement of pedestrian or other traffic. (Ord. 1990-02, 7-10-1990)
9-3-7: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
A person propelling a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across a roadway,
upon and along a crosswalk shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and
shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (Ord.
1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-8: RIGHTS OF PEDESTRIANS:
Pedestrians upon sidewalks shall have the right of way at all times over
persons using or operating bicycles upon any sidewalk not herein prohibited,
and any person using or operating a bicycle upon any sidewalk shall turn off
the sidewalk at all times when meeting or passing pedestrians. (Ord. 1990-2, 7-
10-1990)
9-3-9: SINGLE FILE RIDING:
Bicycles shall be ridden in single file in the business district. Bicycles may
be ridden two (2) abreast in residential districts, but no person or persons
shall ride more than two (2) abreast upon any street or sidewalk located within
the city. Bicycles shall be operated as near to the right curb of any street as
possible at all times. (Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-10: OBSERVANCE OF TRAFFIC RULES:
All persons using or operating bicycles upon any street or sidewalk within the
city shall observe all traffic rules as to traffic lights and stop signs and
shall signal any change of direction or course of traffic in the same manner as
such signals are required under the law governing the use of motor vehicles
upon streets and highways of this state. (Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-11: TOWING UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the city. It is also unlawful for any person riding
a bicycle to follow a fire truck or other fire equipment at any time. (Ord.
1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-12: EXTRA PASSENGERS:
Only one person shall ride a bicycle at one time and extra passengers shall not
be carried upon a bicycle at any time; provided, however, this section shall
not apply to a person riding upon a bicycle which has been constructed to carry
two (2) people, and shall not be construed to apply to a person who has reached
the age of majority who is riding a bicycle with a child seated upon a suitable
device constructed and designed for the specific purpose of carrying a child.
(Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-13: OUT OF PROPORTION BICYCLES:
It is unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle designed or constructed in such
proportions as to make it unwieldy or hazardous to operate under all known
conditions except when the bicycle is operated in a city approved parade, show
or exhibition. (Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-14: IMPROPER RIDING:
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle within the corporate limits of
the city to ride in an irregular or reckless manner, including, but not limited
to, zigzagging, speeding, or otherwise riding with disregard for either the
operator's safety or the safety of others. No person shall ride a bicycle
across the private property of another in such a manner as to cause damage to
said property. (Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
9-3-15: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation of said chapter, except registration. A violation of the registration
provisions of this chapter shall cause a written warning citation to be issued
to the violator.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter a second time,
except registration, will receive a written citation and be assessed a ten
dollar ($10.00) fine, and the violator's bicycle may be impounded for one to
ten (10) days.
   C.   Any person violating this chapter for a third time, except
registration, will receive a written citation under the Illinois vehicle code 1
.
   D.   Any person violating the registration section of this chapter will
receive a warning citation for the first offense.
   E.   Any person violating the registration section of this chapter will
receive a written citation and be assessed a five dollar ($5.00) fine for every
offense thereafter.
   F.   Any rental bicycle impounded under this chapter may be picked up
immediately at city hall by the registered owner or owner's representative.
   G.   Any nonresident person violating a section of this chapter will receive
a written warning citation.
   H.   Any nonresident person violating a section of this chapter as a second
offense will have the bicycle impounded until such person is prepared to depart
the city or by being assessed a ten dollar ($10.00) fine.
   I.   Any bicycle left impounded for thirty (30) days will be considered city
property and available for the most economic means of disposal, including sale
or disposal. (Ord. 1990-2, 7-10-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
CHAPTER 4
TRUCK ROUTE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Use Required
9-4-3: Trucks On Other Streets Prohibited
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
100 et seq., otherwise known as the Illinois vehicle code, as may be amended
from time to time:
   Apportionable semitrailer,
   Apportionable trailer,
   Road tractor, and
   Truck tractor.
Hereinafter, for simplicity, the above terms shall be referred to as "truck" or
"trucks". (Ord. 2000-3, 2-13-2001)
9-4-2: USE REQUIRED:
Trucks shall be permitted only on designated truck routes as set forth on the
truck route map in this section and as described below:
   Main Street from Hotchkiss to Broadway Street;
   Broadway Street;
   Mulholland Street to Main Street;
   State highway;
   White Street from Main Street to state highway;
   Parley Street from state highway to Winchester Street;
   Winchester Street from state highway to Parley Street;
   Young Street from Main Street to Wells Street;
   Durphy Street from Young Street to Cutler Street;
   Cutler Street from Durphy Street to Wells Street;
   Wells Street from Young Street to Cutler Street;
   Hotchkiss Street from state highway to Main Street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1398.gif]
(Ord. 2000-3, 2-13-2001; Ord. 2019-2, 7-9-2019)
9-4-3: TRUCKS ON OTHER STREETS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only, on any street except those designated on
the truck route. (Ord. 2000-3, 2-13-2001)
CHAPTER 5
BUS ROUTE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Use Required
9-5-3: Buses On Other Streets Prohibited
9-5-4: Engines Running
9-5-5: Penalty
9-5-6: Enforcement
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
100 et seq., otherwise known as the Illinois vehicle code, as may be amended
from time to time:
   Bus, and
   Recreational vehicle.
Hereinafter, for simplicity, the above terms shall be referred to as "bus" or
"buses". (Ord. 2000-12, 5-8-2001)
9-5-2: USE REQUIRED:
Buses shall be permitted only on designated bus routes as set forth on the bus
route map in this section and described as follows:
All access roads into state park;
State Highway 96;
All of Water Street;
All of Broadway Street;
Robinson Street for 150 feet south of Mulholland Street;
Main Street from Water to Broadway Street;
Mulholland Street from highway to Main Street;
All of Parley Street;
Winchester Street from Parley to Knight Street;
Hubbard Street from Main to Durphy Street;
Partridge Street from Hubbard to Young Street;
Young Street from Durphy to Main Street;
Page Street south from Mulholland Street to bus parking lot;
Durphy Street from Young Street to Hubbard Street;
Warsaw Street from Parley Street to the RLDS Campground entrance and exit;
White Street from Main Street to Granger;
Kimball Street from Durphy Street to Main Street;
Knight Street from 30 feet east of Warsaw Street to the north entrance/exit of
the Nauvoo Family Motel parking lot, to permit access between the Nauvoo Family
Motel and the Nauvoo Family Motel annex;
Warsaw Street north from Mulholland 250 feet, to permit access to and from
Grandma's House;
Gordon Street north from Mulholland a sufficient distance to permit access to
and from the parking and loading area in front of the Nauvoo Family Motel;
East only (one way) on Knight Street from the north exit of the Nauvoo Family
Motel parking lot to Gordon Street and then south only (one way) on Gordon
Street to Mulholland, to permit access from the rear of the Nauvoo Family Motel
to the parking and loading area in front of the motel or to Mulholland itself.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1400.gif]
(Ord. 2000-12, 5-8-2001)
9-5-3: BUSES ON ALL OTHER STREETS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to drive any bus on any street except those designated on
the bus route. (Ord. 2000-12, 5-8-2001)
9-5-4: ENGINES RUNNING:
It shall be unlawful for any bus's engine to be running longer than fifteen
(15) minutes after stopping. (Ord. 2000-12, 5-8-2001)
9-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the rules, regulations, or provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2000-12, 5-8-2001)
9-5-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The bus route restrictions in this chapter may be enforced only when
appropriate signs giving notice of the bus route restrictions are erected at
proper places and along proper parts of the respective streets. (Ord. 2000-12,
5-8-2001)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Stop Streets
9-6-1: STOP STREETS:
   A.   Stop signs shall be erected at the following intersections:
Iowa Street and Knight Street (on Iowa Street)
Partridge Street and White Street (replace yield signs)
Warsaw Street and Walnut Drive
Young Street and Robinson Street
Young Street and Warsaw Street (Ord. 2004-3, 6-8-2004; amd. Ord. 2008-14, 7-14-
2009)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to enter upon the intersection of
the above described streets until the operator of said vehicle shall cause the
same to be stopped before entering said intersection, nor thereafter until said
intersection may be entered with reasonable safety.
   C.   Any person violating any of the terms of this section shall be
punishable by a fine set forth in section
9-1-11 of this title. (Ord. 2004-3, 6-8-2004)
CHAPTER 7
INOPERABLE AND UNLICENSED VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definitions
9-7-2: Inoperable Motor Vehicle
9-7-3: Unlicensed Motor Vehicle
9-7-4: Motor Vehicle Component Parts
9-7-5: Exemptions
9-7-6: Removal
9-7-7: Authorized Removal
9-7-8: Sale Of Vehicle
9-7-9: Proceeds Of Sale
9-7-10: Liability For Damage
9-7-11: Penalties
9-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is more than twenty five (25) years of
age or a bona fide replica thereof, or a fire- fighting vehicle more than
twenty (20) years old that is not used as fire-fighting equipment but is used
only for the purpose of exhibition or demonstration.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which the engine, wheels, or
other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels, or other parts
have been altered, damaged, or otherwise treated that the vehicle is incapable
of being driven under its own motor power, whether or not licensed.
MOTOR VEHICLES: Every vehicle that is self-propelled, including tractors,
dozers, machinery and equipment, except for vehicles moved solely by human or
animal power and except for motorized wheelchairs.
UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES: Any motor vehicle that does not exhibit a current,
unexpired license or sticker from the State of Illinois or from any other
state. Unlicensed motor vehicles include automobiles, trucks, and motorcycles
or motorized cycles.
VEHICLE: Every device, in, upon, or by which any person, property, or material
or substance is or may be transported, pushed or drawn upon land, except
devices moved solely by human or animal power, and devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-2: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE:
It is unlawful to store any inoperable motor vehicle on private property within
the City for a period of more than seven (7) days unless it is stored within an
enclosed building or is covered with a cover specifically designed to fit the
make and model of that vehicle. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-3: UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE:
It is unlawful to store any unlicensed motor vehicle on private property within
the City for a period of more than seven (7) days unless it is stored within an
enclosed building or is covered with a cover specifically designed to fit the
make and model of that vehicle. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-4: MOTOR VEHICLE COMPONENT PARTS:
It is unlawful to store any motor vehicle component parts on private property
within the City for a period of more than seven (7) days unless they are stored
within an enclosed building and out of public view. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-5: EXEMPTIONS:
A motor vehicle that is classified or registered as an antique vehicle is
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, as are new and used car dealerships
that are duly licensed by the State of Illinois. Automotive repair facilities
licensed by the City shall have thirty (30) days, rather than seven (7) days,
to remove abandoned vehicles, unlicensed vehicles, inoperable vehicles, and
vehicle component parts from its property. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-6: REMOVAL:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or any part of one on any roadway in the
City is unlawful and is subject to the penalties of this chapter. Any
unlicensed vehicle, inoperable vehicle, or motor vehicle component part located
on public or private property, which has been abandoned and is in view of the
general public, is unlawful and may be removed by the City of Nauvoo or upon
the order of the City's Chief of Police, if it has not been removed by its
owner within seven (7) days of the date that City personnel first discovered
it. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-7: AUTHORIZED REMOVAL:
   A.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or some other type of vehicle is creating a traffic hazard
because of its position in relation to the roadway, or because its physical
appearance is impeding of traffic, the City's Chief of Police may order its
immediate removal from the roadway by a towing service.
   B.   When a motor vehicle or some other vehicle is removed from either
public or private property as authorized by order of the Chief of Police, the
owner of the vehicle is responsible for, and shall pay, all towing and storage
costs. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-8: SALE OF VEHICLE:
Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other type
of vehicle that is seven (7) years old or newer remains unclaimed by the
registered owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of thirty (30) days, and the owner or legal possessor has been given
notice, the Police Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it
to be sold by private or public sale.
Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place
for at least ten (10) days before the sale at the premises where the vehicle
has been impounded. At least ten (10) days before the sale, the Police
Department, shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent
by certified mail to the registered owner or to any other person known by the
Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to possession of the
vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle.
In those instances where the certified mail notice has been returned to the
Police Department because of the addressee having moved, because the mail was
unclaimed or refused, or if a forwarding address is unknown, the sending of a
second notice by certified mail is not required.
When a motor vehicle that is more than seven (7) years old is impounded as
specified in this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10)
days for the purpose of determining ownership, contacting the registered owner
by U.S. mail or in person to determine disposition, and examining the Illinois
State Police stolen motor vehicle files for evidence of theft and other
information. At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information or directions received from the registered owner, the
Chief of Police may authorize the disposal of the vehicle as a junk vehicle.
(Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-9: PROCEEDS OF SALE:
When a vehicle located within the City limits has been authorized by the Police
Chief to be towed and disposed of as set forth in this chapter, the proceeds of
the sale remaining after the payment of towing, storage, and processing fees
shall be deposited in the Police General Fund. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-10: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE:
Any police officer, towing service, owner/operator, or employee shall not be
held liable for damages in any claim asserted by, or action filed by, the
registered owner, former registered owner, or other person legally entitled to
possession of that vehicle when the vehicle was disposed of pursuant to the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
9-7-11: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than the maximum fine imposed by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1
(currently $750.00) for each offense; each day that a violation exists or
continues shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to payment of the
required fine, the violator shall pay all fees related to the towing and
storage of the vehicle. The current storage fee is twenty dollars ($20.00) per
day, but that fee may be changed from time to time by a majority vote of the
City Council.
The person who violates this chapter also may be charged with violating the
City's Nuisance Code, and the nuisance may be abated as provided for in this
Code. (Ord. 2013-8, 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 8
IMPOUNDED VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Authority To Adopt Procedure And Fees; Fee Waiver
9-8-2: Violations Subject To Imposition Of Fees
9-8-3: Administrative Fee; Towing And Storage Charges
9-8-4: Impoundment Procedure
9-8-5: Notice Of Administrative Hearing
9-8-6: Administrative Hearing; Rules
9-8-7: Abandonment Of Impounded Vehicle; Sale
9-8-8: No Liability For Damage
9-8-9: Recovery Of Fees And Charges
9-8-1: AUTHORITY TO ADOPT PROCEDURE AND FEES; FEE WAIVER:
Pursuant to State law 1 , the City of Nauvoo hereby adopts the procedures set
forth in this chapter for the release of properly impounded vehicles and for
the imposition of a reasonable administrative fee related to the administrative
and processing costs associated with its investigation, arrest, and detention
of an offender or its removal, impoundment, storage, and release of the
vehicle. That administrative fee may be in addition to any fees charged for the
towing and storage of an impounded vehicle. However, the administrative fee
will be waived upon verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time
the vehicle was impounded. (Ord. 2014-8, 3-10-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-208.7.
9-8-2: VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO IMPOSITION OF FEES:
Fees may be imposed for the following violations:
   A.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012; or
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501; or
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act; or
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act; or
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012; or
   F.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-303, except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing;
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess, cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act;
or
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, if the period of
expiration is greater than one (1) year; or
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
101, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's
license or permit due to a person's age; or
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, 6-303, or 11-
501;
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A of the Criminal
Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012; or
   L.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, when so provided by City
ordinance; or
   M.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-503:
      1.   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
      2.   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession. (Ord. 2014-8,
3-10-2015)
9-8-3: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE; TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES:
   A.   The administrative fee is currently set at two hundred dollars
($200.00) but may be changed from time to time by the City Council as
necessary.
   B.   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be imposed
on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that owner.
   C.   The administrative fee shall be in addition to any other penalties that
may be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations and any towing
or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
   D.   The administrative fee shall be uniform for all similarly situated
vehicles.
   E.   The administrative fee shall be collected by, and paid to, the City of
Nauvoo.
   F.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by, and paid
to, the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
   G.   An impounded vehicle may be released to the owner of record, a lessee,
or a lien holder of record only after payment of all administrative fees and
towing and storage charges. (Ord. 2014-8, 3-10-2015)
9-8-4: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE:
Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle is subject
to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a
facility authorized by the City of Nauvoo.
At the time the vehicle is towed, the City of Nauvoo shall notify, or shall
make a reasonable attempt to notify, the owner, lessee, or person identifying
himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is
found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of
the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an
administrative hearing.
The notice shall state that the motor vehicle will remain impounded pending the
completion of an administrative hearing, unless the owner or lessee of the
vehicle, or a lien holder, posts a bond with the City in an amount equal to the
administrative fee and pays for all towing and storage charges. (Ord. 2014-8,
3-10-2015)
9-8-5: NOTICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, and any lien holder of record,
shall be provided with notice of the administrative hearing. The notice of
hearing:
   A.   Shall be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lien holder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail sent to the interested
party's address as registered with the Secretary of State;
   B.   Shall be served upon the interested parties within ten (10) days after
a vehicle is impounded; and
   C.   Shall contain the date, time, and location of the administrative
hearing, which must be scheduled and convened no later than forty five (45)
days after the service date or mailing date of the notice. (Ord. 2014-8, 3-10-
2015)
9-8-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING; RULES:
The administrative hearing shall be conducted as follows:
   A.   The administrative hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in this State for a minimum of three
(3) years.
   B.   Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(b)(4), the formal
or technical rules of evidence shall not apply during the hearing. The hearing
shall be recorded. The person conducting the hearing shall be empowered to
administer oaths and to secure by subpoena both the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of relevant books and papers. Persons who appear
at the hearing may be represented by counsel at their own expense.
   C.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall issue a
written decision, either sustaining or overruling the vehicle impoundment, and
a copy of the written decision shall be served upon the owner, lessee, and any
lien holder of record either by personal service or by first class mail sent to
the interested party's address as registered with the Secretary of State.
   D.   If the basis for the impoundment is sustained, any administrative fee
posted to secure the release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the City.
   E.   All final decisions of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law.
   F.   Unless the Administrative Hearing Officer overturns the basis for the
impoundment, no vehicle shall be released until all administrative fees and
towing and storage charges are paid. (Ord. 2014-8, 3-10-2015)
9-8-7: ABANDONMENT OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE; SALE:
If an impounded vehicle is not retrieved from the towing or storage facility
within thirty five (35) days after the Administrative Hearing Officer issues a
written decision, it shall be deemed abandoned and may be disposed of by the
City by private or public sale. The proceeds of the sale shall be deposited in
the Police General Fund. (Ord. 2014-8, 3-10-2015)
9-8-8: NO LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE:
The City of Nauvoo, or any employee or agent, shall not be held liable for
damages in any claim asserted by, or action filed by, the registered owner,
lessee, or other person legally entitled to possession of the impounded vehicle
when the vehicle was disposed of pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-8, 3-10-2015)
9-8-9: RECOVERY OF FEES AND CHARGES:
Unless they are stayed by a court, any fees and charges imposed under this
chapter which remain unpaid in whole or in part after the expiration of the
deadline for seeking review of the administrative decision may be enforced in
the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-8, 3-10-2015)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Base Zoning District Regulations   2
  RR Rural Residential District   2A
  R Single- And Two-Family Residential  Dwelling District   2B
  RMF Residential Multiple-Family Dwelling    District   2C
  RMH Residential Mobile Home Park District   2D
  TTP Travel Trailer Park District   2E
  OM Outdoor Museum District   2F
  C Commercial District   2G
  CBD Central Business District   2H
  I Light Industrial District   2I
  PUD Planned Unit Development District   2J
Off Street Parking And Loading   3
Landscape Buffers   4
Signs   5
Outdoor Lighting   6
Wind Powered Generators   6A
Nonconforming Uses, Structures And Lots   7
Administration   8
  Zoning Administrator   8A
  Planning Commission   8B
  Zoning Board Of Appeals   8C
Site Plan Review   9
Special Use Permits   10
Changes And Amendments   11
Fees   12
Enforcement And Penalties   13
Appendices   14
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-4: Establishment Of Districts
10-1-5: Boundaries And Official Map
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
The regulations contained in this title, as amended from time to time, shall be
cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF NAUVOO, ILLINOIS, and shall be
referred to herein as "this title". (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the residents of Nauvoo; to encourage the most appropriate use of land
throughout the city; to promote traffic safety; to provide safety from fire and
other hazards; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent overcrowding of
real estate; to promote a wholesome home environment; to prevent housing
development in unsanitary areas; to provide an adequate street system; to
promote the coordinated development of unbuilt areas; to preserve and promote
the beauty of the community; to provide an allotment of land area in new
development sufficient for all the requirements of community life; to conserve
natural and cultural resources; to provide for adequate public services; and to
enhance the value of property within the city. The foregoing purposes shall be
implemented by establishment of the zoning districts adopted hereby and herein
and by compliance with all of the other provisions of this title. This title is
intended to carry out and be consistent with the city's comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined. All
words not defined herein shall carry their customary and usual meanings. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future, the singular number shall
include the plural, and the plural number includes the singular; the word
"shall" is mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive; the word "person"
includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or
corporation, as well as an individual; the words "used" or "occupied" include
the words intended, designed or arranged to be used or occupied.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A detached, subordinate building, the use of
which is clearly incidental and related to that of the principal building or
use of the land, and which is located on the same land as the principal
building or use. The detached subordinate building, accessory building, or
structure must be set back at least ten feet (10') from the adjacent property
lines. For residential uses, accessory buildings and structures shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Garage.
   B.   Gazebo.
   C.   Greenhouse.
   D.   "Home workshop", as defined below.
   E.   Recreational facilities for the use of occupants of the residence, such
as a swimming pool or a tennis court, and related structures.
   F.   Wharf, dock, landing, or boathouse.
(Note: The yard requirements for permitted uses apply to permitted accessory
uses.)
ADULT USES: A commercial use characterized by activities that provide
entertainment which is sexual or erotic in nature and therefore appropriate for
adults only. Specific uses in this title classified as adult uses are:
   A.   Adult Amusement Establishment: An establishment which provides
amusement or entertainment which is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on material depicting, describing, or related to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas and where admittance is limited to
adults or admittance is advertised or promoted as being restricted to adults.
The establishment may be, but is not limited to, an indoor restaurant, lounge,
nightclub, or any other facility regardless of whether food, drink, or
alcoholic beverages are served; or
      1.   An establishment which features topless dancers, exotic dancers,
strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar entertainment; or
      2.   An establishment which, upon payment of a fee, provides an escort or
a dance partner to its patrons.
   B.   Adult Bookstore: An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade books, magazines, and other periodicals which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or
display of such material.
   C.   Adult Entertainment Establishment: An indoor restaurant, lounge,
nightclub, or any other facility regardless of whether food, drink, or
alcoholic beverages are served, where, in all or part thereof, live
entertainment is provided for patrons which is sexually erotic in nature, where
admittance is limited to adults or admittance is advertised or promoted as
being restricted to adults.
   D.   Adult Photo Studio: An establishment which, upon payment of a fee,
provides photographic equipment or models for the purpose of photographing
specified anatomical areas.
   E.   Adult Theater: A theater, used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for purposes of growing the usual farm products,
including vegetables, fruits, trees and grains; pasturage; dairying; animal and
poultry husbandry; and the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the
produce; provided that the operation of such accessory uses shall be secondary
to that of the regular agricultural activities.
ALLEY: A public way, other than a street, twenty feet (20') or less in width
affording a secondary means of access to abutting property.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of motor vehicles or trailers
or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled or wrecked vehicles or their
parts.
BASEMENT: A story having part, but not more than, one-half (1/2) of its height
below grade. A basement is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulation. (See attachment B of this section for illustrations of story
calculations.)
BED AND BREAKFAST: A building of residential character other than a hotel,
motel or boarding house, which is compatible with the neighborhood and which:
   A.   Provides temporary lodging for less than thirty (30) days;
   B.   Provides temporary lodging in five (5) or fewer rooms for guests;
   C.   Provides one or more meals daily for guests;
   D.   Has a manager of the inn residing on the premises at all times;
   E.   Does not provide the accessory uses associated with a hotel;
   F.   "Guestroom" shall mean a sleeping room intended to serve no more than
two (2) transient guests per night;
   G.   All future bed and breakfasts will only be allowed in the commercial
district.
BILLBOARD: Includes all structures, regardless of the materials used in the
construction of the same, that are erected, maintained or used for the public
display of posters, painted signs, wall signs (whether the structure is placed
on the wall or painted on the wall itself), pictures or other pictorial reading
matter which advertises a business or attraction which is not carried on or
manufactured in or upon the premises upon which said signs or billboards are
located.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals or
lodging are regularly furnished by prearrangement for compensation for persons
not members of an immediate family, but not exceeding three (3) persons and not
open to tourist or transient customers as a bed and breakfast establishment.
"Immediate family" means husband, wife, child or grandparents only.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals or property; but not including signs
or billboards.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the average finished grade at
the building line to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the
deck line of a mansard roof or to the average height of the highest gable of a
pitch or hip roof. (See attachment B of this section for illustrations of roof
height calculations.)
CARPORT: A roofed structure providing space for the parking of motor vehicles
and enclosed on not more than two (2) sides. For the purposes of this title, a
carport attached to a principal building shall be considered as part of the
principal building and subject to all yard requirements herein.
CELLAR: That portion of a building having more than one-half (1/2) of its
height below grade. A cellar is not included in computing the number of stories
for the purpose of height measurement. (See attachment B of this section for
illustrations of story calculations.)
CHILDCARE FACILITY: Any person, group of persons, agency, association or
organization, whether established for gain or otherwise, who or which receives
or arranges for care or placement of one or more children, unrelated to the
operator of the facility, apart from the parents, with or without the transfer
of the right of custody in any facility as defined in the childcare act of 1969
1 , established and maintained for the care of children.
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL: A building or buildings in which physicians,
dentists, or physicians and dentists, chiropractors, optometrists,
ophthalmologists, and allied professional assistants are associated for the
purpose of carrying on their profession.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying dues which owns, hires or leases a building or portion thereof,
the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
DAYCARE CENTER: Any childcare facility which regularly provides daycare for
less than twenty four (24) hours per day for more than eight (8) children in a
family home or more than three (3) children in a facility other than a family
home, including senior citizen buildings. The term does not include:
   A.   Programs operated by public or private elementary school systems or
secondary level school units or institutions of higher learning which serve
children who shall have attained the age of three (3) years;
   B.   Programs or that portion of the program which serves children who shall
have attained the age of three (3) years and which are recognized by the state
board of education;
   C.   Educational program or programs serving children who shall have
attained the age of three (3) years and which are operated by a school which is
registered with the state board of education and which is recognized or
accredited by a recognized national or multistate educational organization or
association which regularly recognizes or accredits schools;
   D.    Programs which exclusively serve or that portion of the program which
serves handicapped children who shall have attained the age of three (3) years
but are less than twenty one (21) years of age and which are registered and
approved as meeting standards of the state board of education and applicable
fire marshal standards;
   E.   Facilities operated in connection with a shopping center of service,
religious services or other similar facility where transient children are cared
for temporarily while parents or custodians of the children are occupied on the
premises and readily available;
   F.   Any type of daycare center that is conducted on federal government
premises;
   G.   Special activities programs, including athletics, crafts instruction
and similar activities conducted on an organized and periodic basis by civic,
charitable and governmental organizations;
   H.   Part day childcare facilities, as defined in section 2.10 of the act;
or
   I.   Programs or that portion of the program which:
      1.   Serves children who shall have attained the age of three (3) years,
      2.   Is operated by churches or religious institutions as described in
section 501(c)(3) of the federal internal revenue code,
      3.   Receives no governmental aid,
      4.   Is operated as a component of religious, nonprofit, elementary
school,
      5.   Operates primarily to provide religious education, and
      6.   Meets appropriate state or local health and fire safety standards.
For purposes of this definition, "children who have attained the age of three
(3) years" shall mean children who are three (3) years of age, but less than
four (4) years of age, at the time of enrollment in the program 2 .
DAYCARE HOMES 3 : Family homes which receive more than three (3), up to a
maximum of twelve (12), children for less than twenty four (24) hours per day.
The maximum of twelve (12) children includes the family's natural, foster or
adopted children and all other persons under the age of twelve (12). The term
does not include facilities which receive only children from a single
household.
DOG KENNEL: The keeping of any dog or dogs regardless of number, for sale,
breeding, boarding or treatment purposes, except in an animal hospital,
veterinary clinic or pet shop, as may be permitted by law; or the keeping of
five (5) or more dogs six (6) months or older on premises used for residential
purposes; or the keeping of more than one dog on vacant property or on property
used for business or commercial purposes shall constitute a kennel.
DORMITORY: A building with rooms providing sleeping and living accommodations
for a number of usually unrelated persons; usually associated with an
educational institution.
DWELLING: Any stationary, permanent building or portion thereof which is
designed or used exclusively for residential purposes; but not including a
tent, cabin, hotel, motel, trailer or mobile home.
DWELLING, CONDOMINIUM: A multiple dwelling as defined herein whereby the title
to each dwelling unit is held in separate ownership, and the real estate on
which the units are located is held in common ownership solely by the owners of
the units with each owner having an undivided interest in the common real
estate.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residence designed for or occupied by three (3) or
more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
DWELLING, ROW: Three (3) or more attached dwellings in a continuous row, each
such dwelling designed and erected as a unit on a separate lot and separated
from one another by an approved wall or walls. Also referred to as a townhouse.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached residence designed for or occupied by one
family only.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY OR DUPLEX: A detached residence designed for or occupied
by two (2) families only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for
each. Duplex units may only be adjacent, side by side, to each other.
DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms which are arranged, designed or used as
living quarters for the occupancy of one family and containing bathroom and/or
kitchen facilities.
FAMILY: The body of persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or not more
than four (4) unrelated persons who live together in one dwelling unit as a
single housekeeping entity.
FEEDLOT: Any parcel of land or premises on which the principal use is the
concentrated feeding within a confined area of cattle, hogs or sheep. The term
does not include areas which are used for the raising of crops or other
vegetation and upon which livestock are allowed to graze or feed.
FOUNDATIONS: The minimum requirements for the foundation of a manufactured
home, placed outside of an approved mobile home park, shall be a perimeter
trench footing that is no smaller than the width and length of the proposed
home. The minimum trench footing width shall be eight inches (8") but in no
event less than the width of the foundation wall. The trench footing depth
shall be forty two (42) to forty eight inches (48"). No reinforcement is
required. The foundation wall shall be concrete or four (4), six (6), or eight
inch (8") concrete block. An access door to the underfloor space shall be
provided. All other state support and tie down requirements shall be met.
The foundation of a manufactured home may also be constructed of such alternate
building systems that have been reviewed and approved by the building
inspector.
It is the intent herein to provide a foundation which is compatible with the
structural design of a manufactured home, and ensures visual compatibility with
surrounding site built residential structures.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory structure or part of a dwelling designed and used
for housing one or more vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the
principal building.
GARAGE, PUBLIC PARKING: A structure, or portion thereof, designed and used for
short term parking or storage of motor vehicles.
GARAGE, SERVICE: A building, or portion thereof, designed and used for the
service, repairing, or equipping of motor vehicles. A service garage may also
contain facilities for the retail sale of gasoline and other automotive
products.
GAS STATION: A structure designed or used for the retail sale or supply of
fuels, lubricants, air, water, washing and polishing services and other
operating commodities or accessories on or in such vehicles, and including the
customary space and facilities for the installation of such commodities or
accessories on or in such vehicles; but not including space or facilities for
the storage, painting, major repair, refinishing, bodywork or other major
serving of motor vehicles.
GROUP DAYCARE HOME 4 : A family home which receives more than three (3), up to
sixteen (16), children less than twenty four (24) hours per day. The number
counted includes the family's natural, foster, or adopted children and all
other persons under the age of twelve (12).
GROUP HOME 5 : A childcare facility which provides care for no more than ten
(10) children placed by and under the supervision of a licensed child welfare
agency with these homes being owned or rented, staffed, maintained and
otherwise operated by the agency. (PA 79-1016)
GUESTHOUSE: A guesthouse or cottage is a dwelling unit in a building separate
from and in addition to the principal residential building on a lot but not
exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the floor area of said principal residential
building, intended for intermittent or temporary occupancy. No such living
quarters shall be rented, leased, or otherwise be made available for
compensation of any kind and shall be used only for the housing of guests. If
the guesthouse or cottage is occupied by the property owner, the main residence
shall not be rented, leased or made available for compensation.
HOME OCCUPATION: A domestic activity carried on by members of a family residing
on the premises, but excluding beauty shops, barbershops, music schools,
convalescent or nursing homes, tourist homes, or other establishments offering
services to the general public, and providing there are no displays that will
indicate from the exterior of the building that it is being utilized, in whole
or in part, for any purpose other than that of a dwelling; providing, no person
is employed other than a member of the family residing on the premises, and no
mechanical equipment is used except such as is customary for purely domestic or
household purposes. The keeping of not more than three (3) roomers or boarders
shall be considered a permitted home occupation. The care and supervision of
not more than twelve (12) children other than those residing on the premises
shall be considered a permitted home occupation. (See definitions of Daycare
Homes and Group Daycare Home.)
HOME WORKSHOP OR WORKROOM: A workshop, located within a principal building or
within an accessory building, which is used primarily by the occupants of the
dwelling unit for personal use and not a commercial use.
HOTEL/MOTEL: Includes every building or structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised, and held out to the public to be a place where temporary lodging is
offered for adequate pay to transient guests.
JUNKYARD: An open area or fenced enclosure where used or secondhand materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled
including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires and bottles. A junkyard includes an automobile wrecking yard, but does
not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but
without cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a
suite of rooms, each room shall be counted as one lodging room.
LOT: A parcel of land of at least a sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved
public street or on an approved private street and may consist of:
   A.   A single lot of record;
   B.   A portion of a lot of record;
   C.   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record or of portions of lots of record; or
   D.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no
case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this title.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT, DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES: The lines bounding a lot, including the right of way line of any
public road or highway acquired by easement.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision or official plat recorded
in the office of the recorder of deeds for Hancock County or a lot or parcel
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
LOT, REVERSED FRONTAGE: A corner lot, the side street line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first platted lot to
its rear. (See attachment A of this section for illustrations of lot types.)
LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot measured at the building line and at right angles
to its depth.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory built, single-family structure which is
manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 United States code (USC)
section 5403, federal manufactured home construction and safety standards; and
displays a seal from the United States department of housing and urban
development; and was constructed on or after June 15, 1976, and is to be used
as a place for human habitation; and is not constructed or equipped with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than for the
purpose of moving to a permanent site; and which does not have permanently
attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles.
For the purpose of these regulations, a manufactured home shall be considered
the same as any site built, single-family detached dwelling. It shall be
located in accordance with the setback, lot size, minimum square footage and
hook up requirements for a site built, single-family detached dwelling on the
same lot. It shall be installed with a permanent foundation system for a
manufactured home as described in this section under the definition of
"foundations".
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle without motive power used or so manufactured or
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public street
or highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed as will permit the
vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or more persons; but
shall also include any such vehicle with motive power not registered as a motor
vehicle in Illinois. A mobile home is not built to mandatory building code,
contains no state or federal seals, and was built before June 15, 1976. A
mobile home shall not be construed to be a travel trailer or other form of
recreational vehicle. A mobile home is only permitted in an approved mobile
home park.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any lot or portion of a lot upon which one or more trailers
or mobile homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodation.
MODULAR HOME: Factory built structure built on a permanent chassis which is
manufactured to be used as place of human habitation; is constructed to comply
with Illinois state building codes for modular factory built structures; and
displays the seal issued by the state. Once certified by the state, a modular
home shall be subject to the same standards as a site built home. It shall be
located in accordance with the setback, lot size, minimum square footage and
hookup requirements for a site built, single-family dwelling or multi-family
dwelling on the same lot, whichever is applicable. It shall be installed with a
permanent foundation system as required by codes for a site built, single-
family or multi-family detached dwelling, whichever is applicable.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A nonconforming building or structure is one that does
not meet the space and/or bulk standards of the district in which it is
located. It is allowed solely because it was in lawful existence as of the
effective date hereof or as of the effective date of any subsequent amendment
which rendered the building nonconforming.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A single lot which as of the effective date hereof or as of
the effective date of any subsequent amendment does not meet the minimum lot
area, net lot area per dwelling unit, minimum street frontage, or other similar
lot requirements of the district in which it is located. It is allowed solely
because it was in lawful existence as of the effective date hereof or as of the
effective date of a subsequent amendment which rendered the lot nonconforming.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of premises that is not a permitted or conditional use
in the district in which it is located, but which is allowed to remain solely
because it was in lawful existence as of the effective date hereof or as of the
effective date of any subsequent amendment which rendered the use
nonconforming.
NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME: A building or structure having accommodations and
where care is provided for invalid, infirm, aged, convalescent or physically
disabled or injured persons.
PERMANENT: Continuing or enduring for a minimum of sixty (60) days in the same
state, status, place, or the like, without fundamental or marked change, not
subject to fluctuation, or alteration, fixed or intended to be fixed; lasting;
abiding; stable; not temporary or transient. Generally opposed in law to
"temporary", but not always meaning "perpetual".
PRINCIPAL USE: The main use of land or structures as distinguished from an
accessory use.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, motor home, mini- motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
RESIDENT: Any person who occupies a dwelling within the state, has a present
intent to remain within the state for a period of time, and manifests the
genuineness of that intent by establishing an ongoing physical presence within
the state together with indicia that his presence within the state is something
other than transitory in nature.
RIGHT OF WAY: Entire width of property dedicated for public uses, such as
streets, sidewalks, water and sewer lines, and the like.
SIGN: Any identification, description, illustration, or device, illuminated or
nonilluminated, which is visible to the general public and directs attention to
a product, service, place, activity, person, institution, business or
solicitation, including any permanently installed or situated merchandise; or
any emblem, painting, flag, banner, pennant, or placard designed to advertise,
identify or convey information. Sign supports are considered part of the sign.
(See attachment C of this section for sign type illustration.)
SIGN, ANIMATED: A sign which involves motion or rotation of any part, created
by artificial means, or which displays flashing, revolving or intermittent
lights.
SIGN AREA: The entire background area of a sign upon which copy could be
placed. In computing area of a sign background, only that face or faces which
can be seen from one direction at one time shall be counted. The supporting
incidental structure of the sign shall not be used in computing sign area. (See
attachment C of this section for sign area illustration.)
SIGN, AWNING: A sign that is mounted or painted on, or attached to an awning,
canopy, or marquee.
SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY: Any wall or ground sign or portion thereof with
characters, letters, or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without
altering the face or the surface of the sign, excluding time/temperature signs.
SIGN, COPY: The message or advertisement, and any other symbols on the face of
a sign.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL: A sign identifying entrances, exits, aisles, ramps, and
similar traffic related information.
SIGN FACE: The area or display surface used for the message.
SIGN, GROUND OR MONUMENT: Any sign placed upon or supported by the ground
independent of any other structure.
SIGN, INFORMATION: A sign which identifies a residence, a noncommercial
activity, including historic markers, or a sign conveying cautionary and
similar information.
SIGN, POLE: Any sign supported by uprights or braces placed upon or in the
ground and not attached to any building.
SIGN, PORTABLE: A sign that is not permanent, affixed to a building, structure,
or to the ground. Such sign may be mounted on wheels to make it transportable.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign that is wholly or partly dependent upon a building for
support and which projects more than twelve inches (12") from such building.
SIGN, ROOF: A sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or which is wholly
dependent upon a building for support and which projects above the point of a
building with a flat roof, the eave line of a building with a gambrel, gable,
or hip roof, or the deck line of a building with a mansard roof.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign intended for use for only a limited period of time.
SIGN, WALL: A sign fastened to or painted on the wall of a building or
structure in such a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for,
or forms the background surface of the sign and which does not project more
than twelve inches (12") from such building or structure.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign that is applied or attached to the interior of a window or
located in such a manner within the building that it can readily be seen from
the exterior of the building through a window.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: A permit granted by the planning commission in any zoning
district for a special use listed in chapter 10 of this title. The planning
commission may grant a special use permit provided that:
   A.   The use is specifically authorized as a special use in chapter 10 of
this title;
   B.   All other requirements of this title are met;
   C.   The special use will not create a danger to the public health, safety,
or welfare; nor cause an extraordinary public expense, nor create a nuisance.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of livestock
owned by the occupants of the premises and not kept for hire, remuneration, or
sale.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A detached accessory building where horses are boarded and/or
kept for hire.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it. If there is no floor above it, then the
space between such floor and the ceiling or roof next above it shall be
considered a story.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and exterior wall face not more than four feet (4') above the top
floor level.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground, or attachment to something having location on the ground.
TEMPORARY: That which is to last for a limited time only, as distinguished from
that which is perpetual, or indefinite, in its duration. Opposite of permanent.
TIMESHARE: The renting of a single piece of real estate, often a vacation home,
to many different parties, each having a specified block of time during which
they may use it. Rental is on a transient basis and for a charge, meaning any
form of remuneration such as cash, goods, services, barter, donations,
forgiveness of indebtedness, or other like payment. Timeshare property rental
income is subject to the city of Nauvoo's hotel-motel tax.
TRAILER PARK: See definition of Mobile Home Park.
TRANSIENT: One who, or that which, is temporary. Synonymous with transitory,
fugitive, fleeting, momentary.
TRANSIENT PERSON: Within venue statute, one who is found in state but who has
no fixed place of residence therein. Person is in a place only temporarily.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A recreational vehicle not used commercially, with or without
motive power, designed as a temporary dwelling, not exceeding eight feet (8')
in width and forty feet (40') in length, exclusive of a separate towing unit.
The term travel trailer shall include a pickup coach, motor home, camp trailer
or other similar mobile and temporary dwellings commonly used for travel,
recreation or vacation quarters.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: A place where three (3) or more recreational vehicles are
parked for six (6) or more days in a calendar year.
VACATION HOME: A home used for recreational purposes that may also be rented
out at times to others. Rental is on a transient basis and for a charge,
meaning any form of remuneration such as cash, goods, services, barter,
donations, forgiveness of indebtedness, or other like payment. Vacation home
rental income is subject to the city of Nauvoo's hotel-motel tax. Note: The
property is classified as a vacation home rental if your personal use is more
than the longer of fourteen (14) days or ten percent (10%) of the number of
days actually rented during the year at a fair market value.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building or structure unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from thirty inches (30") above the
general ground level of the graded lot upward, except as may be provided by
other sections of this title. In measuring a yard for the purpose of
determining the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the least
distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used. In measuring
a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the least
distance between the lot line and the nearest permitted building shall be used.
Structural or mechanical devices added to existing structures to make them
accessible to physically disadvantaged persons may encroach into the required
setbacks and buffers. (See attachment A of this section for yard illustration.)
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the front line and the building or any projection thereof, other than
the projection of the usual steps or unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the
front yard shall be considered as the yard adjacent to the street upon which
the lot has its least dimension. Certain architectural features, such as, but
not limited to, cornices, eaves, stoops and gutters, may project no more than
three feet (3') into the required front yard. (See attachment A of this section
for yard illustration.)
Where the average of the front yard setbacks for all adjacent lots, which are
located within two hundred feet (200') of either side of a lot, is less than
the minimum required front yard, the required setback line may be reduced to
this lesser average depth, but in no case, to less than ten feet (10'). For the
purpose of computing such average, an adjacent vacant lot shall be considered,
as having the minimum required front yard setback specified for the zoning
district.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear lot line and the building or any projections other than steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On both corner lots and interior,
the opposite end of the lot from the front yard. Certain architectural
features, such as, but not limited to, cornices, eaves, stoops and gutters, may
project no more than five feet (5') into the required side yard. (See
attachment A of this section for yard illustration.)
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard and measured
between the side lot lines and the nearest building. Certain architectural
features, such as, but not limited to, cornices, eaves, stoops and gutters, may
project no more than two feet (2') into the required side yard. (See attachment
A of this section for yard illustration.)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1402.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1406.gif]
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004; Ord. 2004-14, 6-14-2005;
Ord. 2005-16, 5-9-2006; Ord. 2008-12, 6-9-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 10/2.05.
2 1. 225 ILCS 10/2.09.
3 1. 225 ILCS 10/2.18.
4 1. 225 ILCS 10/2.20.
5 2. 225 ILCS 10/2.16.
10-1-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the purpose and intent of this title, the area of the
city is hereby divided into ten (10) zoning district classifications as
follows:RRRural residential districtRSingle- and two-family residential
dwelling districtRMFResidential multiple-family dwelling districtRMHResidential
mobile home park districtTTPTravel trailer park districtOMOutdoor museum
districtCCommercial districtCBDCentral business districtILight industrial
districtPUDPlanned unit development district
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-1-5: BOUNDARIES AND OFFICIAL MAP:
The boundaries of these districts are indicated upon the official zoning map of
the city, which is made a part of this title by reference hereto. The official
zoning map and all notations, references and other matters shown thereon shall
be as much a part of this title as if the notations, references and other
matters set forth by said map were all fully described herein.
The official zoning map shall be on file in the office of the city clerk and
shall be identified by the signature of the mayor attested by the city clerk
under the certification that this is the official zoning map referred to in
section 18-2 of the zoning ordinance. A copy of the official zoning map shall
be available for public inspection in city hall during normal business hours.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this title, changes are made in the
district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, the
ordinance number and date of said change shall be recorded by the city clerk on
the official zoning map.
A revised zoning map shall be produced by the city at the end of each fiscal
year upon which are delineated all amendments and changes that occurred during
that fiscal year. The city council shall adopt a new official zoning map at the
end of the fiscal year, if necessary, which shall supersede the prior official
zoning map.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   If a boundary is on or in a street, alley, highway, road, or other
public right of way, or follows a river, streambed, drainageway or railroad
track, then such a zone boundary shall be the center of the street, alley,
highway, road, other public right of way, river, streambed, drainageway or
railroad track.
   B.   If a boundary line follows lot or property boundary lines, then such
lot or property lines shall be construed to be the zone boundaries.
   C.   In the case of unsubdivided property, where a zone boundary divides a
lot or parcel, the location of the zone boundary, unless precisely indicated on
the zoning map by dimensions or legal description, shall be determined by the
use of the scale appearing on the zoning map.
   D.   Upon vacation or abandonment of any public street, alley, right of way,
or any public easement, the area vacated or abandoned shall be included in the
same zone as the property to which it reverts unless otherwise specified in the
instrument of vacation or abandonment.
   E.   The planning commission shall, by written decisions, determine the
location of any zone boundaries whose location is in dispute or uncertain.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 2
BASE ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  RR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2A-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2A-2: Permitted Uses
10-2A-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2A-4: Prohibited Uses
10-2A-5: Area Regulations
10-2A-6: Height Regulations
10-2A-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2A-8: Site Plans
10-2A-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The RR rural residential district is intended to provide for the continuation
of general farming and related uses in those areas of the city that are not yet
committed to urban development. It is further the intent of this district to
protect lands contained herein from urban development until their orderly
transition into urban oriented districts is required. Rental/leasing of
permitted uses must be for a minimum of thirty (30) consecutive days. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004; Ord. 2004-14, 6-14-2005)
10-2A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Agriculture and the usual agricultural buildings and structures, including the
raising of livestock and poultry, and grain storage and grain drying
facilities; excluding feedlots, poultry farms and confinement systems. No
livestock is to be housed closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') from any
lot in any R district.
Cemeteries, including mausoleums.
Churches, chapels, temples and similar places of worship.
Electrical and natural gas transmission and regulating facilities.
Forests and wildlife preserves.
Nurseries, greenhouses and truck gardens.
Private, noncommercial recreational areas and centers, including country clubs,
swimming pools, golf courses and riding stables; but not including automotive
racetracks, miniature golf courses, drive-in theaters and similar commercial
uses.
Private riding stables.
Public and parochial schools, elementary and secondary and other educational
institutions.
Public water supply and sewage treatment facilities.
Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, golf courses and recreation areas.
Single-family (nonfarm) dwellings. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11,
4-13-2004; Ord. 2004-14, 6-14-2005)
10-2A-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Attached or detached private garage or carport, providing that such accessory
uses shall not involve the conduct of a business.
Group daycare homes and daycare homes.
Home occupations and professional home offices.
One mobile home utilized as living quarters for persons employed on a farm.
Roadside stands for sale of seasonal products grown on the premises, provided
that no permanent structures shall be erected or maintained.
Satellite dish antennas are to be located on the roof of the principal
structure or in the side or rear yards only.
Temporary buildings, including mobile homes or trailers, for uses incidental to
construction work, which buildings shall be moved upon the completion or
abandonment of the construction work.
Uses of land or structures customarily incidental and subordinate to one of the
permitted principal uses unless otherwise included. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2A-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Kennels for the raising, breeding and boarding of dogs or other small animals.
Timeshare operations.
Vacation homes.
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2A-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed:
   A.   Lot area: No lot area shall be less than five (5) acres in size.
   B.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
   C.   Side yards: Twenty feet (20').
   D.   Rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
   E.   Corner lots: Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets, there shall be a front yard on each side of a corner lot;
provided, however, that the buildable width of a lot of record at the effective
date hereof need not be reduced to less than thirty five feet (35'), except
where necessary to provide a yard along the side street with a depth of not
less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2A-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum height: No limitation.
   B.   Maximum number of stories: No limitation. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2A-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 3 of this title for all permitted uses. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-2A-8: SITE PLANS:
None required for single-family or agricultural development. Site plans shall
be required in accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of this title for
all other uses permitted in this district. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004; amd. Ord.
2004-14, 6-14-2005)
ARTICLE B.  R SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2B-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2B-2: Permitted Uses
10-2B-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2B-4: Prohibited Uses
10-2B-5: Area Regulations
10-2B-6: Height Regulations
10-2B-7: Perimeter Foundation Requirement
10-2B-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2B-9: Site Plans
10-2B-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The R district is intended and designed to provide for low and medium density
residential areas now developed with single-family and two-family dwellings and
areas where similar residential development seems likely to occur. Rental/
leasing of permitted uses must be for a minimum of thirty (30) consecutive
days. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004; Ord. 2004-14, 6-
14-2005)
10-2B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Agricultural uses, including nurseries and truck gardens; provided that no
offensive odors or dust are created, and provided, further, that no retail
sales or the raising and keeping of livestock or poultry shall be permitted on
the premises.
Cemeteries, including mausoleums.
Churches, chapels, temples and similar places of worship; provided that all
principal buildings be set back a minimum of forty feet (40') from all property
lines.
Conversions of single-family dwellings into two-family dwellings in accordance
with the lot area, frontage, height and yard requirements of this article.
Museums, libraries and community centers operated by the city.
Planned unit development.
Private, noncommercial recreational areas, including clubs, swimming pools,
tennis clubs and golf courses.
Public and parochial schools, elementary and secondary and other educational
institutions having an established current curriculum the same as ordinarily
given in the Nauvoo public schools; provided that all principal buildings be
set back a minimum of forty feet (40') from all property lines.
Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, golf courses and recreation areas.
Single-family dwellings with attached garage or carport.
Two-family dwellings, or duplexes consisting of two (2) lateral attached
dwelling units with each unit having a separate access and separate utilities,
and existing or being constructed upon one lot or parcel of real estate which
is divided into two (2) parcels to allow for separate ownership of each parcel;
provided that the division of the lot or parcel into two (2) parcels is in such
a manner as to result in one single-family dwelling unit being located on
either side of the common boundary line, with the common wall between the two
(2) laterally jointed single- family dwelling units being on said common
boundary line, and further subject to the recording of restrictive covenants,
prior to division, which provide that the owners thereof are jointly and
severally liable and responsible for the maintenance and repair of the common
wall, as well as all other common aspects, including, but not limited to,
utilities, water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, easements, and driveways, all to
the point of division. A duplex shall meet all other requirements pertaining to
a two-family dwelling. Nothing herein, however, shall be construed to allow the
lot to be further divided other than for the use of one or both of the
resulting two (2) parcels of real estate in the event the laterally jointed
two-family dwelling unit is partially or totally damaged or destroyed.
A maximum of one 2-family dwelling is allowed per lot. Duplexes must have
direct access to a public street.
Other uses deemed by the planning commission to be in character with the zoning
district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004; Ord. 2004-14,
6-14-2005)
10-2B-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Group daycare homes and daycare homes.
Guesthouse, so long as it is used only as an accessory to the primary residence
and provided that:
   A.   The residences are not less than twenty feet (20') from each other; and
   B.   All other applicable requirements of this section and this code are
met.
Home occupations and professional home offices.
Private garage or carport.
Satellite dish antennas located on the roof of the principal structure or in
the side or rear yards only.
Storage of no more than a total of two (2) sport trailers, recreational
vehicles, motor homes, trailers and/or campers provided that such units:
   A.   Are located within the setback requirements of this zone;
   B.   Are not used for human habitation, while parked, for more than thirty
(30) days in a calendar year;
   C.   Are not permanently connected to any public or private utility system
such as water, gas or electricity;
   D.   Are parked on the side or rear of the lot and are not parked or
situated on any public street, thoroughfare or right of way; and
   E.   Are currently licensed and registered as required by the state of
Illinois.
Taking of boarders or the leasing of rooms by a resident family, provided the
total number of boarders and roomers does not exceed three (3) per building.
Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings
shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work.
Temporary use of a dwelling structure within a new subdivision as a job office
and real estate office for the subject subdivision, which use shall terminate
upon completion or abandonment of the project.
Uses of land or structures customarily incidental and subordinate to one of the
permitted principal uses unless otherwise excluded. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2B-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Mobile homes on individual lots.
Nonresidential development except those permitted in sections
10-2B-2 and
10-2B-3 of this article.
Timeshare operations.
Vacation homes.
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2B-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot area:Single-family dwelling -  seven thousand five hundred (7,500)
square feet.Two-family dwelling - ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   B.   Lot width:Single-family dwelling - seventy feet (70').Two-family
dwelling - eighty feet (80').
   C.   Front yard:Single-family dwelling - twenty five feet (25').Two-family
dwelling - twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Side yards:Single-family dwelling - ten feet (10') on each side.Two-
family dwelling - fifteen feet (15') on each side.Two-family dwelling (duplex)
- zero feet (0') on attached side.Churches and schools - forty feet (40') on
each side.
   E.   Rear yard:Single-family dwelling - thirty feet (30').Two-family
dwelling - thirty feet (30').
   F.   Principal building width: Twenty four feet (24') for the main body.
   G.   Corner lots: Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets, there shall be a front yard on each side of a corner lot;
provided, however, that the buildable width of a lot of record at the effective
date hereof need not be reduced to less than thirty five feet (35'), except
where necessary to provide a yard along the side street with a depth of not
less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2B-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum height:Principal building - thirty five feet (35').Accessory
building - eighteen feet (18').
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2008-11, 6-9-2009)
   B.   Maximum number of stories:Principal building - three (3)
stories.Accessory building - one story.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2B-7: PERIMETER FOUNDATION REQUIREMENT:
A permanent perimeter foundation meeting the currently adopted building code
standards shall be required for all principal buildings. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-
2001)
10-2B-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2B-9: SITE PLANS:
None required for single-family development unless in a subdivision or planned
unit development. Site plans are required if more than one 2-family dwelling
unit is placed on property owned by the same person or if located in a
subdivision or planned unit development. Site plans shall be required in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of this title for all other uses
permitted in this district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-
2004; Ord. 2004-14, 6-14-2005)
ARTICLE C.  RMF RESIDENTIAL MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2C-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2C-2: Permitted Uses
10-2C-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2C-3-1: Prohibited Uses
10-2C-4: Area Regulations
10-2C-5: Height Regulations
10-2C-6: Perimeter Foundation Requirement
10-2C-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2C-8: Site Plans
10-2C-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The RMF district is intended and designed to provide for certain high density
residential areas now developed with multiple-family dwellings and areas where
similar residential development seems likely to occur. With the exception of a
bed and breakfast inn, rental/leasing of all other permitted uses must be for a
minimum of thirty (30) consecutive days. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord.
2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the R district.
Colleges and universities, both public and private, including administrative
buildings, classrooms, dormitories, athletic facilities and similarly related
structures; but not including commercial trade schools.
Daycare center provided a special use permit has been obtained pursuant to
chapter 10 of this title.
Institutions of a religious, educational or philanthropic nature, including
libraries.
Multiple dwellings, including row dwellings and condominium dwellings.
Nursing, convalescent and retirement homes.
Private clubs, lodges or veterans' organizations, excepting those holding a
beer permit or liquor license.
Similar uses deemed appropriate by the planning commission to be in character
with the zoning district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2C-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R district.
Group daycare homes and daycare homes.
Storage of no more than a total of one sport trailer, recreational vehicle,
motor home, trailer and/or camper, in single-family and two-family uses only,
provided that such units:
   A.   Are located within the setback requirements of this zone;
   B.   Are not used for human habitation, while parked, for more than thirty
(30) days in a calendar year;
   C.   Are not permanently connected to any public or private utility system
such as water, gas or electricity;
   D.   Are parked on the side or rear of the lot and are not parked or
situated on any public street, thoroughfare or right of way; and
   E.   Are currently licensed and registered as required by the state of
Illinois. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2C-3-1: PROHIBITED USES:
Timeshare operations.
Vacation homes.
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2C-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Area:Single-family dwelling - seven thousand five hundred (7,500)
square feet.Two-family dwelling - ten thousand (10,000) square feet.Multiple-
family or other permitted use - fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
   B.   Lot Width:Single-family dwelling - seventy feet (70').Two-family
dwelling - eighty feet (80').Multiple-family dwelling and other permitted uses
- eighty feet (80').
   C.   Front Yard:Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Side Yards:Three (3) stories or less up to thirty five feet (35');
minimum on each side - ten feet (10').More than three (3) stories up to forty
five feet (45'); minimum on each side - fifteen feet (15').Duplexes and
condominiums - zero feet (0') on attached side.
   E.   Rear Yard:Thirty feet (30').
   F.   Corner Lots: Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets, there shall be a front yard on each side of a corner lot;
provided, however, that the buildable width of a lot of record at the effective
date hereof need not be reduced to less than thirty five feet (35'), except
where necessary to provide a yard along the side street with a depth of not
less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2C-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum Height:Principal building - forty five feet (45').Accessory
building - fifteen feet (15').
   B.   Maximum Number Of Stories:Principal building - three (3)
stories.Accessory building - one story.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2C-6: PERIMETER FOUNDATION REQUIREMENT:
A permanent perimeter foundation meeting the currently adopted building code
standards shall be required for all principal buildings. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-
2001)
10-2C-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2C-8: SITE PLANS:
Site plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title for all uses permitted in this district except single-
and two-family dwellings. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
ARTICLE D.  RMH RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2D-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2D-2: Permitted Uses
10-2D-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2D-4: Prohibited Uses
10-2D-5: Area Regulations
10-2D-6: Height Regulations
10-2D-7: Design Standards
10-2D-8: Permanent Facilities And Residence Services
10-2D-9: Standards For Continuing Operations
10-2D-10: License And Permits
10-2D-11: Inspection, Enforcement And Appeals
10-2D-12: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2D-13: Site Plans
10-2D-14: Existing Mobile Home Parks
10-2D-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The intent of the RMH residential mobile home district is to provide for the
orderly and unified planning and development of mobile home communities, to
assure the provision of facilities and amenities appropriate to the needs of
residents of mobile home communities and to assure a harmonious relationship
between mobile home communities and adjoining land uses. Rental/leasing of all
permitted uses must be for a minimum of thirty (30) consecutive days. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2D-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be hereafter erected or structurally altered, unless otherwise provided for in
this section, except for one or more of the following uses:
Accessory buildings typically found with the following permitted uses.
Municipal buildings and facilities, excluding storage and repair facilities.
Planned unit development.
Public recreation areas and facilities.
Single-family mobile and modular homes. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to any principal permitted
uses.
Clubhouse and/or other common recreation facilities. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Any use considered commercial in nature.
Nightly or weekly rentals of any nature.
Timeshare operations.
Travel trailers.
Vacation homes.
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2D-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for mobile home parks:
   A.   Minimum Site Size:
      1.   Every mobile home trailer park subdivision shall be platted on not
less than five (5) acres of land.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size:
      1.   Every mobile home hereafter placed in a subdivision shall be on a
lot having an area of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet and shall
measure at least fifty feet by eighty feet (50' x 80').
   C.   Yard Areas:
      1.   No mobile home shall be placed upon a park subdivision lot unless
the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such mobile
home dwellings:
         a.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is placed
shall have a front yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
         b.   Side Yard: On each lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is
placed, there shall be a side yard on each side of not less than ten feet
(10'). The side yard for corner lots shall be not less than twenty feet (20').
         c.   Rear Yard: Every lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is placed
shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
   D.   Setback From Centerline Of Street:
      1.   Every mobile home placed upon a subdivision lot which fronts upon a
highway shall be set back from the centerline of said highway a minimum of
sixty feet (60') to the building line.
   E.   Percentage Of Lot Coverage:
      1.   Each mobile home dwelling, including accessory buildings, garages
and porches shall not cover more than seventy percent (70%) of each subdivision
lot.
   F.   Dwelling Standards: Every mobile home dwelling hereafter placed upon a
subdivision lot shall have a total ground floor area of not less than seven
hundred twenty eight (728) square feet, measured from the outside of exterior
walls, including utility rooms, but excluding open porches, breezeways and
garages. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum Height:Thirty five feet (35') (clubhouse/recreation/service
facilities).Fifteen feet (15') (carports, maintenance buildings).
   B.   Maximum Number Of Stories:2.5 stories (clubhouse/recreation/service
facilities).One story (carports/maintenance buildings).
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be incorporated in the design of the mobile home
park:
   A.   Liquefied Petroleum Gas As Fuel: When liquefied petroleum gas is used,
the containers for such gas shall be the liquefied petroleum gas container
approved by the interstate commerce commission for its intended purpose and
shall be integrally attached to the mobile home in a manner as approved by the
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association or other appropriate authority including
the appropriate safety authorities and the building inspector.
   B.   Fuel Oil Supply: Fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with applicable state and local codes and regulations.
All fuel oil storage containers, barrels, tanks or cylinders and piping to the
mobile home shall be securely fastened in place and protected against physical
damage.
   C.   Natural Gas System: Natural gas piping systems shall be installed
underground in accordance with applicable codes and regulations and public
utility standards. Each mobile home lot provided with piped gas shall have an
approved manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet
shall be equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas
when the outlet is not in use.
   D.   Accesses: A minimum of two (2) accesses to a dedicated street shall be
provided per mobile home park.
   E.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided adjacent to all streets in
mobile home parks, on both sides of the street, shall be a minimum width of
four feet (4'), and shall be constructed in conformance with the current
adopted building code standards.
   F.   Tie Downs: All mobile homes shall have tie downs in accordance with
applicable provisions of the current adopted building code standards.
   G.   Utilities: All electrical, gas and telephone utilities shall be placed
underground in accordance with city standards.
   H.   Trash Collection Receptacles: Trash collection receptacles shall be
provided and properly screened from view per the requirements found in chapter
4 of this title.
   I.   Travel Trailers, Etc.: The overnight housing and occupancy of travel
trailers, motor homes, truck campers, recreation vehicles, tents and houseboats
within a mobile home park is prohibited.
   J.   Lots Outside District: Unless specifically approved elsewhere in this
code, the parking of a mobile home on a lot not located within a residential
mobile home park is prohibited.
   K.   Performance Standards To Be Considered: The following performance
standards for subdivisions and their design shall be developed as follows:
      1.   Relation To Lot: There shall be private open areas on the lot
related appropriately to its functional areas. The lot shall be so shaped in
scale as to provide for reasonable alternatives for home placements. Moving the
mobile home onto the lot must, of course, be possible, but in subdivisions the
amount of movement shall be limited. In subdivisions, provisions for
positioning of the unit on the lot and for moving it out are only incidental to
the total subdivision design. Location of drives, parking areas, carports and
garages must be on individual mobile home lots or in the appropriate area. The
parking areas must be easy and safe for entrance and convenience from all
directions within the subdivision and from the street or highway. Driveways and
car shelters shall not be located to interfere with desirable views from the
mobile home or from important open areas on the site.
      2.   Relation Of Lots To Each Other: The mobile home as well as
functional areas on individual lots shall complement and supplement those on
adjacent lots. Open areas shall flow onto open areas enhancing primary views.
Areas on one lot where it is desirable to enclosure with structures, vegetated
screening or fences shall adjoin similar areas on neighboring lots. "Fronting"
to the inside of a subdivision block has the definite advantages of providing a
"view potential", and providing a play area for children. Facing the mobile
home groupings inward improves the views, unifies pedestrianways and
interrelates streets, drives, car storage and garbage and trash pick up
functions.
Interior areas within the mobile home groupings shall be designed to encourage
neighborliness. Interblock arrangements shall include easy access from the
entrances of mobile homes in the grouping.
      3.   General Subdivision Pattern Relation Of Elements: The general
subdivision, built from mobile home groupings, shall fit topography,
requirements for circulation, and requirements for provision of community
facilities and utilities.
The street pattern shall serve, not shape, the lots in the subdivision. Lands
devoted to streets shall be held to a minimum compatible with performance of
street related functions. Minor streets shall feed at well spaced intervals and
well designed intersections into collector streets and arteries for fast moving
traffic.
General site planning shall adapt to individual site conditions, the type of
market to be served, reflect advances in site planning techniques, and be
adapted to the trends and designs of the mobile home trailer. A site plan,
which conforms to and preserves terrain, existing trees, shrubs and rock
formation, is highly preferred. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-8: PERMANENT FACILITIES AND RESIDENCE SERVICES:
The following permanent facilities shall be installed and available to and for
each mobile home lot:
   A.   Streets and driveways shall be installed and paved to a minimum width
of twenty four feet (24') and conform to municipal subdivision standards.
   B.   Sanitary drinking water system, inspected and approved by the
department of health, providing adequate pressure with appropriate water
connections for domestic usage.
   C.   Sanitary sewage disposal system, inspected and approved by the
department of health, with appropriate water and odortight sewerage connections
for mobile home usage. Connection between storm water drainage systems and
sewage disposal systems shall not be permitted.
   D.   Insect and rodent control measures shall be employed to maintain
healthful and sanitary conditions.
   E.   Public utilities, having building code and ordinance approved
connection boxes, including, but not limited to, electricity, gas and
telephone.
   F.   Management and maintenance offices including storage facilities for
groundskeeping equipment.
   G.   The following residence services may be made available to all mobile
home dwellers:
      1.   Twenty four (24) hour custodial or caretaker service. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-2D-9: STANDARDS FOR CONTINUING OPERATIONS:
The following standards for continuing the operations of a mobile home trailer
park subdivision shall be imposed upon each owner or operator thereof:
   A.   Register: A register record shall be kept of all mobile home owners or
occupants situated within a park subdivision. The register, which shall be kept
within the management office, shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of each occupant.
      2.   The name and address of each owner of each mobile home.
      3.   The make, model, year and license number of each mobile home.
      4.   The state, territory or country issuing such licenses.
      5.   The date of arrival and of departure.
      6.   The lot number and location within the park subdivision.
      7.   A registry of all school age children.
The register shall be kept available at all times for inspection by law
enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials whose duties
necessitate the acquisition of the information contained in the register. The
register record for each occupant registered therein shall not be destroyed for
a period of six (6) years.
   B.   Supervision: The owner or duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall
be in charge at all times to keep the park subdivision, its facilities and
equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable with the owner for the violation of any provision
of these standards to which the licensee or permittee is subject. The owner or
caretaker must be available at all times or be accessible by telephone.
   C.   Suspension And Revocation Of License: Following proper identification
and adequate time for correction, the department of public health may suspend
or revoke any license to maintain and operate a park subdivision when the owner
has been found to be violating any provision of these standards.
   D.   Posting Of License And Transfer: The license certificate and
certificate of occupancy shall be conspicuously posted in the office of or the
premises of the park subdivision at all times. Operating licenses shall be
nontransferable without the written consent of the licensor. Each and every
mobile home within a park subdivision shall have displayed within it a
certificate of title. In addition, the mobile home owner and the park
subdivision owner or operator shall comply with all other provisions of the
Illinois motor vehicle law.
   E.   School Board Report: The owner or operator shall file a report with the
local school board or district on the first days of February and September
wherein the mobile home park subdivision is located, giving the names and ages
of all school age children living therein.
   F.   Board Of Health Report: The owner or operator shall file a report with
the board of health giving the full name, age and address of every person who
is affected or suspected of being affected with any reportable or communicable
disease.
   G.   Maintenance, Repair And Sanitation: The owner or operator shall
maintain and repair all facilities, services, roads and driveways and keep all
of same in a sanitary and safe condition within the park subdivision. Occupants
of mobile homes therein who violate sanitation or safety standards or standards
identified herein, or who wilfully or maliciously damage the facilities within
the park subdivision, shall be prosecuted or ejected.
   H.   Compliance: The owner or operator shall comply with all rules and
regulations of the Illinois department of revenue. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-10: LICENSE AND PERMITS:
   A.   Construction Permit And Original Operating License Requirements: It
shall be unlawful for any person to park, place, construct or maintain any
mobile home or mobile home park subdivision park upon any acreage, lot,
premises, area or tract, without first obtaining a construction permit from the
building inspector and/or an original operating license from the department of
public health or the county health unit of the Illinois department of public
health.
      1.   Provided, however, that any mobile home situated within the city but
not within a mobile home park subdivision upon the effective date hereof shall,
if in conformity with all sewer, water, sanitation and health ordinances of the
state and county, be privileged to remain at its present location but may not
be removed to another location except within the conformity of these standards.
But, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the replacement of an
existing trailer with an existing trailer, even if larger than an existing
trailer, or the enlargement of an existing trailer, provided the yard
requirements contained in this article are met. Any mobile home so situated but
not in conformity with said requirements shall be brought into compliance with
them on or before two (2) years or shall be removed to a mobile home trailer
park subdivision.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful to occupy
for sleeping or other resident purposes any mobile home not permanently affixed
to the land unless it conforms to these standards. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-11: INSPECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS:
The building inspector shall inspect park subdivisions at least once a year,
and shall have the power and authority to enter upon the premises at any time
for the purpose of enforcing the provisions relative to health, sanitation,
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal. Enforcement, violations,
penalties and appeals procedures are governed by
chapters 12 and
13 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-12: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2D-13: SITE PLANS:
Site plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title for all uses permitted in this district. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-2D-14: EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARKS:
Mobile home parks in existence at the time of the passage hereof, which are
zoned RMH by this title, shall be considered as having met all the requirements
of this article. Any enlargements, additions or extensions to such mobile home
parks shall be in accordance with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
ARTICLE E.  TTP TRAVEL TRAILER PARK DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2E-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2E-2: Permitted Uses
10-2E-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2E-4: Prohibited Uses
10-2E-5: Area Regulations
10-2E-6: Height Regulations
10-2E-7: Design Standards
10-2E-8: Permanent Facilities And Residence Services
10-2E-9: Standards For Continuing Operations
10-2E-10: License And Permits
10-2E-11: Inspection, Enforcement And Appeals
10-2E-12: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2E-13: Site Plans
10-2E-14: Existing Travel Trailer Parks
10-2E-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The intent of the TTP travel trailer park district is to provide for the
orderly and unified planning and development of travel trailer parks, to assure
the provision of facilities and amenities appropriate to the needs of the
temporary residents and to assure a harmonious relationship between travel
trailer parks and adjoining land uses. Rental/leasing of all permitted uses
must be for a minimum of thirty (30) consecutive days. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001;
amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2E-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be hereafter erected or structurally altered, unless otherwise provided for in
this section, except for one or more of the following uses:
Accessory buildings typically found with the following permitted uses.
Municipal buildings and facilities, excluding storage and repair facilities.
Planned unit development.
Public recreation areas and facilities.
Travel trailers. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to any principal permitted
uses.
Clubhouse and/or other common recreation/service facilities. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-
12-2001)
10-2E-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Unless a use is specifically listed elsewhere in this section, such use shall
be considered prohibited in any travel trailer park district. The following
uses are expressly prohibited in any travel trailer park district:
Any use considered commercial in nature.
Mobile homes.
Nightly or weekly rentals of travel trailers.
Timeshare operations.
Vacation homes. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-3, 10-14-2003)
10-2E-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for travel trailer parks:
   A.   Minimum Site Size:
      1.   Every travel trailer park shall be platted on not less than two (2)
acres of land.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size:
      1.   Every travel trailer hereafter placed in a park shall be on a lot
having an area of not less than two thousand one hundred (2,100) square feet.
   C.   Yard Areas:
      1.   No travel trailer shall be placed upon a park lot unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such travel
trailer:
         a.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a travel trailer is to be parked
shall have a front yard of not less than eight feet (8').
         b.   Side Yard: On each lot upon which a travel trailer is parked
there shall be a side yard on each side thereof of not less than ten feet
(10').
         c.   Rear Yard: Every lot upon which a travel trailer is parked shall
have a rear yard of not less than five feet (5').
   D.   Setback From Centerline Of Street:
      1.   Every travel trailer placed upon a park lot which fronts upon a
highway shall be set back from the centerline of said highway a minimum of
eighty feet (80') to the building line.
   E.   Percentage Of Lot Coverage:
      1.   Each travel trailer, including accessory buildings, garages and
driveways shall not cover more than eighty percent (80%) of each travel trailer
park lot. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum Height:Thirty five feet (35') (clubhouse/recreation/service
facilities).Fifteen feet (15') (carports, maintenance buildings).
   B.   Maximum Number Of Stories:2.5 stories (clubhouse/recreation/service
facilities).One story (carports/maintenance buildings).
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be incorporated in the design of the travel
trailer park:
   A.   Liquefied Petroleum Gas As Fuel: When liquefied petroleum gas is used,
the containers for such gas shall be the liquefied petroleum gas container
approved by the interstate commerce commission for its intended purpose and
shall be integrally attached to the travel trailer in a manner as approved by
the Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association or other appropriate authority
including the appropriate safety authorities and the building inspector.
   B.   Fuel Oil Supply: Fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with applicable state and local codes and regulations.
All fuel oil storage containers, barrels, tanks or cylinders and piping to the
travel trailer home shall be securely fastened in place and protected against
physical damage.
   C.   Natural Gas System: Natural gas piping systems shall be installed
underground in accordance with applicable codes and regulations and public
utility standards. Each travel trailer lot provided with piped gas shall have
an approved manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The
outlet shall be equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge
of gas when the outlet is not in use.
   D.   Accesses: A minimum of two (2) accesses to a dedicated street shall be
provided per travel trailer park.
   E.   Utilities: All electrical, gas and telephone utilities shall be placed
underground in accordance with city standards.
   F.   Trash Receptacles: Trash collection receptacles shall be provided and
properly screened from view per the requirements found in chapter 4 of this
title.
   G.   Performance Standards To Be Considered: The following performance
standards for subdivisions and their design shall be developed as follows:
      1.   General Relation Of Elements: The general site design, built from
travel trailer groupings, shall fit topography, requirements for circulation,
and requirements for provision of community facilities and utilities.
The street pattern shall serve, not shape, the lots in the travel trailer park.
Lands devoted to streets shall be held to a minimum compatible with performance
of street related functions. Minor streets shall feed at well spaced intervals
and well designed intersections into collector streets and arteries for fast
moving traffic.
General site planning shall adapt to individual site conditions, the type of
market to be served, reflect advances in site planning techniques, and be
adapted to the trends and designs of the travel trailer. A site plan, which
conforms to and preserves terrain, existing trees, shrubs and rock formation,
is highly preferred.
      2.   Length Of Stay: It is the intention of this zoning district to serve
the needs of transient residents only. Therefore, travel trailers shall be
allowed to be parked on a lot for a maximum of sixty (60) consecutive days.
This requirement excludes the resident manager. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-8: PERMANENT FACILITIES AND RESIDENCE SERVICES:
The following permanent facilities shall be installed and available to and for
each travel trailer lot:
   A.   Streets and driveways shall be installed and paved to a minimum width
of twenty four feet (24') for two-way traffic with no parking and twelve feet
(12') for one-way traffic with no parking and conform to municipal subdivision
standards.
   B.   Sanitary drinking water system, inspected and approved by the
department of health, providing adequate pressure with appropriate water
connections for domestic usage.
   C.   Sanitary sewage disposal system, inspected and approved by the
department of health, with appropriate water- and odortight sewerage
connections for travel trailer usage. Connection between storm water drainage
systems and sewage disposal systems shall not be permitted.
   D.   Insect and rodent control measures shall be employed to maintain
healthful and sanitary conditions.
   E.   Public utilities, having building code and ordinance approved
connection boxes, including, but not limited to, electricity, gas and
telephone.
   F.   Management and maintenance offices including storage facilities for
groundskeeping equipment.
   G.   The following resident services may be made available to all travel
trailer park guests:
      1.   Toilet and shower facilities for men and women in a ratio of one
unit for every fifteen (15) persons of each sex. Such facilities shall be
conveniently located, heated and lighted.
      2.   Cooking shelters and wood burning stoves and fireplaces in
convenient areas within the park area; all of which must be maintained in a
sanitary condition and kept in good repair. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-9: STANDARDS FOR CONTINUING OPERATIONS:
The following standards for continuing the operations of a travel trailer
transient park shall be imposed upon each owner or operator thereof:
   A.   Register: A register record shall be kept of all travel trailer owners
or occupants situated within a transient park. The register, which shall be
kept within the management office, shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of each occupant.
      2.   The name and address of each owner of each travel trailer and motor
vehicle by which it is towed.
      3.   The make, model, year and license number of each travel trailer and
motor vehicle.
      4.   The state, territory or country issuing such licenses.
      5.   The date of arrival and of departure.
      6.   The lot number and location within the transient trailer park.
The register shall be kept available at all times for inspection by law
enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials whose duties
necessitate the acquisition of the information contained in the register. The
register record for each occupant registered therein shall not be destroyed for
a period of six (6) years.
   B.   Supervision: The owner or duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall
be in charge at all times to keep the transient park, its facilities and
equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable with the owner for the violation of any provision
of these standards to which the licensee or permittee is subject.
   C.   Suspension And Revocation Of License: Following proper identification
and adequate time for correction, the department of public health may suspend
or revoke any license to maintain and operate a transient park when the owner
has been found to be violating any provision of these standards.
   D.   Posting Of License And Transfer: The license certificate and
certificate of occupancy shall be conspicuously posted in the office of or the
premises of the transient park at all times. Operating licenses shall be
nontransferable without the written consent of the licensor. Each and every
trailer within a transient park shall have displayed within it a certificate of
title. In addition, the travel trailer owner and the transient trailer park
owner or operator shall comply with all other provisions of the Illinois motor
vehicle law.
   E.   Maintenance, Repair And Sanitation: The owner or operator shall
maintain and repair all facilities, services, roads and driveways and keep all
of same in a sanitary and safe condition within the transient park. Occupants
of travel trailers therein who violate sanitation or safety standards or
standards identified herein, or who wilfully or maliciously damage the
facilities within the transient park, shall be prosecuted or ejected.
   F.   Compliance: The owner or operator shall comply with all rules and
regulations of the Illinois department of revenue. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-10: LICENSE AND PERMITS:
   A.   Construction Permit And Original Operating License Requirements: It
shall be unlawful for any person to park, place, construct or maintain any
travel trailer, or travel trailer transient park upon any acreage, lot,
premises, area or tract, without first obtaining a construction permit from the
building inspector and/or an original operating license from the department of
public health or the county health unit of the Illinois department of public
health. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-11: INSPECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS:
The building inspector shall inspect transient parks at least once a year, and
shall have the power and authority to enter upon the premises at any time for
the purpose of enforcing the provisions relative to health, sanitation, water
supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal. Enforcement, violations, penalties
and appeals procedures are governed by
chapters 12 and
13 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-12: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2E-13: SITE PLANS:
Site plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title for all uses permitted in this district. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-2E-14: EXISTING TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS:
Travel trailer parks in existence at the time of the passage hereof, which are
zoned TTP by this title, shall be considered as having met all the requirements
of this article. Any enlargements, additions or extensions to such transient
parks shall be in accordance with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
ARTICLE F.  OM OUTDOOR MUSEUM DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2F-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2F-2: Permitted Uses
10-2F-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2F-3-1: Prohibited Uses
10-2F-4: Area Regulations
10-2F-5: Height Regulations
10-2F-6: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2F-7: Design Guidelines
10-2F-8: Site Plans
10-2F-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The OM outdoor museum district is intended to provide appropriate regulations
to ensure compatibility of diverse uses while protecting structures that have
been restored or recreated whose purpose is to interpret a historical or
cultural setting and period. These regulations are also intended to manage new
growth, meet cultural needs, allow new development to occur that is compatible
with the existing historic structures and protect their integrity while
promoting tourism for the community. New development will reflect the scale and
character of the surrounding area. Rental/leasing of permitted uses must be for
a minimum of thirty (30) consecutive days. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord.
2003-11, 4-13-2004; Ord. 2004-14, 6-14-2005)
10-2F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Cultural and/or religious reenactments.
Historic craft and industry reenactment.
Horticulture and gardening.
Indoor or outdoor theaters.
Museum.
Recreational park.
Restaurant.
Selling of goods.
Single-family/two-family dwellings.
Visitor's center.
Similar uses deemed appropriate by the planning commission to be in character
with the zoning district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-
2004; Ord. 2004-14, 6-14-2005)
10-2F-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Attached or detached private garage or carport, providing that such accessory
uses shall not involve the conduct of a business.
Home occupations and professional home offices.
Uses of land or structures customarily incidental and subordinate to one of the
permitted principal uses unless otherwise included. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2F-3-1: PROHIBITED USES:
Timeshare operations.
Vacation homes.
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2F-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed:
   A.   Lot Area: Lots in the OM district shall have sufficient area and width
for the principal building(s) and its accessory building, off street parking
and loading areas, and required yards. This applies to permitted uses other
than single-family residential.
Single-family dwelling - seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet (same
as R district).
Two-family dwelling - ten thousand (10,000) square feet (same as R
district).B.Lot Width:Single-family dwelling - seventy feet (70') (same as R
district).Two-family dwelling - eighty feet (80') (same as R district).C.Front
Yard:Twenty five feet (25') (single-family home - same as R district).Twenty
five feet (25') (commercial uses - same as C district).
   D.   Side Yards For Commercial Uses: Two (2) side yards, each five feet (5')
wide; except when adjoining any R district or street right of way line, in
which case, twenty five feet (25') (same as C district).
Side yards for single-family homes, minimum on each side - ten feet (10').
Churches and schools - forty feet (40') on each side.
Duplexes - zero feet (0') on attached side (same as R district).
   E.   Rear Yard For Commercial Uses: Twenty five feet (25'), provided,
however, that for every foot the front yard is increased over twenty five feet
(25'), the rear yard may be decreased in direct proportion thereto; but in no
case shall the rear yard be less than ten feet (10'). When adjoining any R
district, rear yard shall be no less than twenty five feet (25') (same as C
district).
Rear yard for single-family homes: thirty feet (30') (same as R district).
   F.   Corner Lots: Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets, there shall be a front yard on each side of a corner lot;
provided, however, that the buildable width of a lot of record at the effective
date hereof need not be reduced to less than thirty five feet (35'), except
where necessary to provide a yard along the side street with a depth of not
less than twenty feet (20').
   G.   Special Provisions:
      1.   Minimum yard area and setback requirements may be waived by the
planning commission for existing single-family lots that are smaller than the
seven thousand five hundred (7,500) minimum standard in order to make them
usable.
      2.   Reconstructed buildings for residential and nonresidential uses may
be exempt from the setback requirements provided that the structure is rebuilt
on the original building footprint. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2F-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum Height: Principal building - forty five feet (45'). Accessory
building - twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Maximum Number Of Stories: Principal building - three (3) stories.
Accessory building - one story.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2F-6: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 3 of this title for all permitted uses. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-2F-7: DESIGN GUIDELINES:
It is the intention of the outdoor museum district zoning regulations to
implement a tool to retain the architectural character of the designated area
on the adopted zoning map. This area contains Nauvoo's first settlement and
many buildings date back to the 1840's and have been restored or replicated.
These regulations are intended to preserve the existing historic buildings and
to discourage the construction of new buildings that are inappropriate. This
area is rich in history, draws thousands of tourists, contains two (2) visitor
centers, provides an area for guided tours, and hosts many outdoor festivities.
This is one of the most important areas in the city to preserve the community's
heritage and uniqueness.
It is recommended that new construction and renovation projects follow these
design guidelines:
   A.   New Construction:
      1.   New construction and facade rehabilitation should maintain
horizontal and vertical spacing of elements similar to other buildings on the
block (e.g., doors, windows, storefronts).
      2.   Windows should be recessed and not flush with the exterior walls.
Proportions should be similar to the other buildings on the block.
      3.   Rooflines of new construction should be similar to those of adjacent
buildings. This helps maintain the rhythm of the streetscape.
      4.   Exterior materials for facades and details should blend with
existing adjacent buildings.
      5.   Storefronts should be designed with the largest possible window area
in keeping with the style of storefronts of adjacent buildings.
      6.   Exteriors should be painted with colors that blend with the older
buildings in the area and are appropriate for a downtown setting. These colors
are typically earth tones that are found in natural materials (e.g., browns,
grays, deep reds, deep greens).
   B.   Restoration And Renovation To Existing Buildings:
      1.   The historic character of a property should be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alterations of features and
spaces that characterize a property should be avoided.
      2.   Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize an historic property should be
preserved.
      3.   Deteriorated historic features should be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature should match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials.
      4.   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials should not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, should be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      5.   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
should not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work should be differentiated from the old and should be compatible with the
massing, size, scale and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
      6.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction should be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
      7.   Exteriors should be repainted with colors that are appropriate to
the historic building or district.
      8.   Roofs should be protected and maintained by cleaning the gutters and
downspouts, replacing deteriorated flashing, and repairing leaks in the roof
material. This prevents extensive water damage which can deteriorate older
buildings rapidly.
      9.   Replacement windows, storefront doors should maintain the same
design style, size and decorative details as the original to the greatest
extent possible.
      10.   Window openings that have been blocked or screened by concrete
block, brick, or plywood, etc., should be reopened to reestablish the original
rhythm of the facade.
      11.   When it is no longer practical to have all existing windows open
into the interior, owners should try placing a black panel behind the glass to
preserve the exterior rhythm and character of the facade rather than covering
the window from the exterior.
      12.   When designing for new or additional means of access, or when
providing barrier free access for the disabled, the accesses should be
compatible with the historic property and its setting while preserving
significant historic features.
      13.   Existing modern homes may follow the design style of their
residence in the construction of new accessory uses. Homeowners are not
required to build their accessory uses to replicate a certain time period.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2F-8: SITE PLANS:
None required for single-family or horticultural development. Site plans shall
be required in accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of this title for
all other uses permitted in this district. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004; amd. Ord.
2004-14, 6-14-2005)
ARTICLE G.  C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2G-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2G-2: Permitted Uses
10-2G-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2G-3-1: Prohibited Uses
10-2G-4: Area Regulations
10-2G-5: Height Regulations
10-2G-6: Minimum Open Space
10-2G-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2G-8: Site Plans
10-2G-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The C commercial district is intended to provide for general retail and service
commercial areas outside of the central business district (CBD). The uses
permitted are intended to accommodate local residents, visitors and tourists.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2G-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the C commercial district, all buildings and premises, except as otherwise
provided for in this article, may be used for any use permitted in the central
business district (CBD) (excluding CBD permitted accessory uses), and all
structures enlarged, converted, or altered shall conform to the following area,
height, and use regulations:
   Antique shop.
   Appliance store.
   Arts and crafts.
   Automobile sales, service and repair.
   Bank and financial institution.
   Barber and beauty shop.
   Bars.
   Bed and breakfast inn or boarding house, provided that:
      A.   Not more than five (5) rooms are available for guest lodging, and
this limitation may not be increased by variance;
      B.   The manager resides in and occupies the bed and breakfast inn or
boarding house when guests are present;
      C.   Provision of food and meals shall meet all applicable state and
local regulations and shall be served only to guests of the bed and breakfast
inn or boarding house;
      D.   All applicable codes shall be met, including, but not limited to,
fire code, building code and this code;
      E.   Applicable off street parking requirements shall be met.
   Car wash.
   Churches.
   Clothing and shoe store.
   Drugstore.
   Dry cleaners.
   Florist.
   Funeral home.
   Furniture store.
   General merchandise, department and variety store.
   Gifts and souvenirs.
   Grocery store.
   Hardware store.
   Hotel and motel.
   Music store and studio.
   Newsstand.
   Parking lots and parking garages.
   Planned unit development.
   Professional and general offices.
   Public utility offices.
   Restaurant (including drive-in restaurants).
   Self-service laundry.
   Sporting goods store.
   Theater.
   Timeshare operations.
   Vacation homes.
   Other retail establishments deemed by the planning commission to be in
character with the zoning district.
The words "other retail establishments deemed by the planning commission to be
in character with the zoning district" shall be held to include all businesses
which would be in character with the district so as to provide for the needs,
goods, convenience, shopping, personal and household services of the people of
Nauvoo and its vicinity.
The principal intention of the district is to provide such convenience and
service without serious harm or interference to nearby R residential districts.
Any retail activity, personal or professional service, service of all kinds
(including limited repair activity) would be normally permitted except:
   Adult bookstores.
   Adult entertainment establishments.
   Auto salvage and wrecking.
   Outdoor displayed gifts and antiques.
   Palm readers, fortune tellers, massage parlors, tattoo parlors.
   Wholesale manufacturing and warehousing.
Other uses deemed incompatible by the planning commission.  (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-
2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004; Ord. 2004-14, 6-14-2005)
10-2G-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to any principal permitted
use, including accessory uses permitted in the CBD district.
Garages for storage of vehicles used in conjunction with the operation of a
business.
Off street parking and loading areas.
Office, storage, power supply, and other uses normally auxiliary to the
principal industrial operations.
Residential quarters for the owner or proprietor, located in the same building
as the business.
Satellite dish antennas located on the roof of the principal structure or in
the side or rear yards only. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2G-3-1: PROHIBITED USES:
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2G-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed:
   A.   Lot Area: Lots in the C district shall have sufficient area and width
for the principal building(s) and its accessory building, off street parking
and loading areas, and required yards.
   B.   Front Yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   C.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each five feet (5') wide; except when
adjoining any R district or street right of way line, in which case, twenty
five feet (25').
   D.   Rear Yard: Twenty five feet (25'), provided, however, that for every
foot the front yard is increased over twenty five feet (25'), the rear yard may
be decreased in direct proportion thereto; but in no case shall the rear yard
be less than ten feet (10'). When adjoining any R district, rear yard shall be
no less than twenty five feet (25').
   E.   Corner Lots: Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets, there shall be a front yard on each side of a corner lot;
provided, however, that the buildable width of a lot of record at the effective
date hereof need not be reduced to less than thirty five feet (35'), except
where necessary to provide a yard along the side street with a depth of not
less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2G-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum height: Forty five feet (45').
   B.   Maximum number of stories: Three (3) stories. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2G-6: MINIMUM OPEN SPACE:
The total land area devoted to open space and landscaping shall not be less
than five percent (5%) of the gross land area included in the building lot.
Such open space shall be maintained as grassed and landscaped area and shall
not include access drives, parking areas, structures or building except
ornamental structures included as part of the landscaping theme. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-2G-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2G-8: SITE PLANS:
Site plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of
this title for all uses permitted in this district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
ARTICLE H.  CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2H-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2H-2: Permitted Uses
10-2H-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2H-3-1: Prohibited Uses
10-2H-4: Area Regulations
10-2H-5: Height Regulations
10-2H-6: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2H-7: Design Guidelines
10-2H-8: Site Plans
10-2H-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The CBD zoning district is intended to provide for the orderly appropriate
regulations to ensure the compatibility of the diverse uses typical of the
"downtown" area without inhibiting the potential for maximum development of
commercial, cultural, entertainment, residential usage and other urban
activities which contribute to its role as the "heart" of the city. (Ord. 2001-
2, 6-12-2001)
10-2H-2: PERMITTED USES:
Retail business or service establishments, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   Antique shops.
   Apparel shops.
   Appliance stores.
   Art shops and galleries.
   Automobile accessory stores.
   Bakeries or bakery outlets, retail sales only.
   Banks, savings and loan associations and similar financial institutions.
   Barbershops and beauty parlors.
   Bicycle shops, sales and repair.
   Billiard parlors and pool halls.
   Bookstores.
   Bowling alleys.
   Camera stores.
   Carpenter and cabinetmaking shops.
   Clothes cleaning and laundry pick up stations.
   Collection office of public utility.
   Confectionery stores, including ice cream or snack bars.
   Dairy stores, retail only.
   Dance halls.
   Dance studios.
   Day nurseries and nursery schools.
   Delicatessens.
   Department stores.
   Drugstores.
   Dry goods stores.
   Florist shops.
   Furniture stores.
   Gift shops.
   Grocery stores, including supermarkets.
   Hardware stores.
   Hobby shops.
   Hotels and motels.
   Household appliances, sale and repair.
   Jewelry stores and watch repair shops.
   Launderettes, coin operated dry cleaning establishments, and dry cleaning or
pressing establishments using only nonflammable solvents.
   Leather goods stores.
   Medical clinics.
   Music stores and studios.
   Newspapers, books, magazines; printing and publishing.
   Office buildings.
   Packaged beverage stores.
   Paint and wallpaper stores.
   Pet shops.
   Photographic studios, printing and developing establishments.
   Plumbing and heating shops.
   Post offices.
   Printing and lithographing shops.
   Radio and television sales and repair shops.
   Restaurants.
   Shoe and hat repair shops.
   Sporting goods stores.
   Tailor and dressmaking shops.
   Taverns and nightclubs.
   Theaters.
   Toy stores.
   Upholstering shops.
   Variety stores.
   Other retail establishments deemed by the planning commission to be in
character with the zoning district.
The words "other retail establishments deemed by the planning commission to be
in character with the zoning district" shall be held to include all businesses
which would be in character with the district so as to provide for the needs,
goods, convenience, shopping, personal and household services of the people of
Nauvoo and its vicinity.
The principal intention of the district is to provide such convenience and
service without serious harm or interference to nearby R residential districts.
Any retail activity, personal or professional service, service of all kinds
(including limited repair activity) would be normally permitted except:
   Adult bookstores.
   Adult entertainment establishments.
   Auto salvage and wrecking.
   Other uses deemed incompatible by the planning commission.
   Outdoor displayed gifts and antiques.
   Palm readers, fortune tellers, massage parlors, tattoo parlors.
   Wholesale manufacturing and warehousing. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2H-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory garages for storage of vehicles used in conjunction with the
operation of the business or for occupants of the premises.
Off street parking and loading areas.
Outside storage of retail products provided that all storage areas are
surrounded by six foot (6') high opaque fence to serve as a vision screen.
Rental apartments may be located on a nonground level provided they are in
compliance with applicable building codes adopted by the city of Nauvoo.
Residential quarters for the owner or proprietor located in the same building
as the business.
Satellite dish antennas are to be located on the roof of the principal
structure or in side or rear yard only. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2H-3-1: PROHIBITED USES:
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2H-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Area: Lots in the CBD district shall have sufficient area and width
for the principal building(s) and its accessory building, off street parking
and loading areas, and required yards.
   B.   Lot Width: No minimum requirement for any of the permitted uses.
   C.   Front Yard: No minimum requirement for any of the permitted uses,
except for corner lots, which shall have a front yard setback of ten feet (10')
from the property line, for the first floor only, to increase visibility for
motorists. Building cutaways at the corner are also allowed.
   D.   Side Yards: No minimum requirement for any of the permitted uses except
when adjoining any R district, in which case, ten feet (10').
   E.   Rear Yard: Twenty feet (20'), except when adjoining any R districts; in
which case, twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2H-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum Height: Fifty feet (50').
   B.   Maximum Number Of Stories: Four (4) stories. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2H-6: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2H-7: DESIGN GUIDELINES:
It is the intention of the central business district zoning regulations to
implement a tool to retain the architectural character of Nauvoo's downtown.
This can be accomplished by preserving existing historic buildings and by
discouraging the construction of new buildings that are inappropriate. The
result will add a reinforced sense of community and create a pleasing
environment for residents by preserving the community's identity and
uniqueness.
It is recommended that new construction and renovation projects follow these
design guidelines:
   A.   New Construction:
      1.   Align the front facade of the new building with established setbacks
of adjacent structures. In the central business district, all structures should
be built to the street right of way unless the adjoining buildings are set
back. Where no structures exist on a block, new buildings should be built to
the street right of way. On corner lots, new construction should be built out
to the sidewalk on the side and the front shall be set back ten feet (10') from
the property line, from the first floor only, to increase visibility for
motorists. Building cutaways at the corner are also allowed.
      2.   New construction and facade rehabilitation should maintain
horizontal and vertical spacing of elements similar to other buildings on the
block (e.g., doors, windows, storefronts).
      3.   Windows should be recessed and not flush with the exterior walls.
Proportions should be similar to the other buildings on the block.
      4.   Rooflines of new construction should be similar to those of adjacent
buildings. This helps maintain the rhythm of the streetscape.
      5.   Exterior materials for facades and details should blend with
existing adjacent buildings.
      6.   Storefronts should be designed with the largest possible window area
in keeping with the style of storefronts of adjacent buildings.
      7.   Exteriors should be painted with colors that blend with the older
buildings in the area and are appropriate for a downtown setting. These colors
are typically earth tones that are found in natural materials (e.g., browns,
grays, deep reds, deep greens).
      8.   The use of fabric awnings and awning valances for signage is
encouraged.
   B.   Restoration And Renovation To Existing Buildings:
      1.   The historic character of a property should be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alterations of features and
spaces that characterize a property should be avoided.
      2.   Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a historic property should be
preserved.
      3.   Deteriorated historic features should be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature should match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials.
      4.   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials should not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, should be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      5.   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
should not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work should be differentiated from the old and should be compatible with the
massing, size, scale and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
      6.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction should be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
      7.   Exteriors should be repainted with colors that are appropriate to
the historic building or district.
      8.   Roofs should be protected and maintained by cleaning the gutters and
downspouts, replacing deteriorated flashing, and repairing leaks in the roof
material. This prevents extensive water damage which can deteriorate older
buildings rapidly.
      9.   Replacement windows, storefront doors should maintain the same
design style, size and decorative details as the original to the greatest
extent possible.
      10.   Window openings that have been blocked or screened by concrete
block, brick, or plywood, etc., should be reopened to reestablish the original
rhythm of the facade.
      11.   When it is no longer practical to have all existing windows open
into the interior, owners should try placing a black panel behind the glass to
preserve the exterior rhythm and character of the facade rather than covering
the window from the exterior.
      12.   When designing for new or additional means of access, or when
providing barrier free access for the disabled, the accesses should be
compatible with the historic property and its setting while preserving
significant historic features. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2H-8: SITE PLANS:
Site plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of
this title for all uses permitted in this district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
ARTICLE I.  I LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2I-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2I-2: Permitted Uses
10-2I-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-2I-4: Prohibited Uses
10-2I-5: Area Regulations
10-2I-6: Height Regulations
10-2I-7: Minimum Open Space
10-2I-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2I-9: Site Plans
10-2I-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The I light industrial district is intended to provide for the orderly
development of manufacturing or industrial operations, which, on the basis of
actual physical and operational characteristics, would not be detrimental to
the surrounding area or to the city as a whole by reason of smoke, noise, dust,
odor, traffic, physical appearance, or other similar factors; and to establish
such regulatory controls as will reasonably ensure compatibility with the
surrounding area in this respect. The I district is characterized by large
lots, with landscaped grounds and ample provision for off street parking and
loading spaces, and structures generally one or two (2) stories in height.
Rental/leasing of all permitted uses must be for a minimum of thirty (30)
consecutive days. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2I-2: PERMITTED USES:
Only the use of structures or land listed in this section shall be permitted in
the I district; provided, however, that all manufacturing, assembling,
compounding, processing, packaging or other comparable treatment, including
storage of any and all materials and equipment, shall take place within
completely enclosed buildings except for parked motor vehicles and off street
parking and loading as required by chapter 3 of this title. In addition, all
open areas not used for off street parking or loading shall be planted with
grass, properly maintained and kept free from refuse and debris. No new
residential uses shall be permitted unless accessory to a permitted principal
use.
Automotive and marine products; storage, manufacturing, and repair.
Cleaning, dressing and dyeing.
Commercial food producers and handlers (bakery, cheese, dairy, grain and
similar products).
Commercial greenhouses.
Cosmetic manufacturing.
Distributors.
Electric and neon signs, outdoor advertising signs.
Electrical appliances manufacturing.
Electronic devices manufacturing.
Farm machinery sales and repair.
Food locker plants.
Glass manufacturing.
Instrument manufacturing.
Jewelry manufacturing.
Laboratories.
Leather fabrication, not including tanning.
Machine shops.
Manufacture and bottling of nonalcoholic beverages.
Miniwarehousing.
Packaging and assembly of products made from fur.
Packaging and packing of confections.
Painting.
Pharmaceutical processing.
Printing and publishing.
Research and development organizations.
Storage and sale of machinery and equipment.
Tobacco and toiletries.
Upholstery.
Warehousing.
Wholesaling.
Similar uses deemed by the planning commission to be in character with the
zoning district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2I-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Employee cafeteria or other food concession in conjunction with the permitted
uses.
Garages for storage of vehicles used in conjunction with the operation of an
industry.
Off street parking and loading areas.
Office, storage, power supply, and other uses normally auxiliary to the
principal industrial operations.
Residential quarters for the owner or caretaker.
Satellite dish antennas are to be located on the roof of the principal
structure or in the side or rear yards only. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2I-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Forges, foundries, garbage incinerators, animal reduction, rubbish storage,
slaughterhouses, smelters, stockyards, and tanneries.
Manufacturing of ammonia, asbestos, asphalt, cement, chlorine, coal tar,
creosote, explosives, fertilizer, glue, gypsum, insecticide, lampblack, poison,
pulp, pyroxylin, and radium.
Processing ammonia, asbestos, asphalt, cabbage, chlorine, coal tar, creosote,
explosives, fertilizer, fish, glue, grease, gypsum, insecticides, lampblack,
offal, poison, pulp, pyroxylin, and radioactive materials.
Storage of bulk fertilizer, explosives, gasoline in excess of fifty thousand
(50,000) gallons, grease, and radioactive materials.
Timeshare operations.
Vacation homes.
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2I-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Area: Lots in the I district shall have sufficient area and width
for the principal building(s) and its accessory buildings, off street parking
and loading areas, and required yards.
   B.   Front Yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   C.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each ten feet (10') wide; provided,
however, that where adjacent to any R district or street right of way line, a
side yard of twenty five feet (25') shall be required.
   D.   Rear Yard: Twenty feet (20').
   E.   Corner Lots: Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets, there shall be a front yard on each side of a corner lot;
provided, however, that the buildable width of a lot of record at the effective
date hereof need not be reduced to less than thirty five feet (35'), except
where necessary to provide a yard along the side street with a depth of not
less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2I-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum Height: Forty feet (40').
   B.   Maximum Number Of Stories: Two (2) stories. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2I-7: MINIMUM OPEN SPACE:
The total land area devoted to open space and landscaping shall not be less
than five percent (5%) of the gross land area included in the building lot.
Such open space shall be maintained as grassed and landscaped area and shall
not include access drives, parking areas, structures or buildings except
ornamental structures included as part of the landscaping theme. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-2I-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2I-9: SITE PLANS:
Site plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title for all uses permitted in this district. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
ARTICLE J.  PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-2J-1: Statement Of Intent
10-2J-2: Permitted Uses
10-2J-2-1: Prohibited Uses
10-2J-3: Area Regulations
10-2J-4: Height Regulations
10-2J-5: Basis For Approval Of The Petition
10-2J-6: Determination
10-2J-7: Changes And Additions
10-2J-8: Subsequent Land Divisions
10-2J-9: Development Of Planned Unit Development Districts
10-2J-10: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2J-11: Site Plans
10-2J-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The PUD planned unit development district is intended to permit developments
that will, over a period of time, be enhanced by coordinated area site
planning, diversified location of structures through clustering, diversified
building types, and/or mixing of compatible uses. Such developments are
intended to provide a safe and efficient system for pedestrian and vehicle
traffic; to provide attractive recreation and open spaces as integral parts of
the developments; to enable economic design in the location of public and
private utilities and community facilities; and to ensure adequate standards of
construction and planning. The PUD district under this title will allow for
flexibility of overall development design with benefits from such design
flexibility intended to be derived by both the developer and the community,
while at the same time maintaining insofar as possible the land use density and
other standards or use requirements of lands in the vicinity of the PUD
project. Rental/leasing of all permitted uses must be for a minimum of thirty
(30) consecutive days. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2J-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses permitted in a planned unit development district shall conform to
uses generally permitted in the other districts of this title. PUDs may mix the
uses permitted in other districts, subject to the criteria set forth in section
10-2J-5 of this article. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2J-2-1: PROHIBITED USES:
Timeshare operations.
Vacation homes.
Anything not listed as a permitted use is prohibited unless deemed appropriate
by the planning commission. Any items listed under prohibited uses are also
prohibited. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-2J-3: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Planned unit development districts shall be under single or corporate
ownership or control, and shall contain a minimum development area of:
      Principal Uses         Minimum Area Of PUD
      Residential PUD         3 acres
      Commercial PUD         5 acres
      Industrial PUD            20 acres
      Mixed compatible use PUD      20 acres
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2J-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Uses permitted in a planned unit development district shall conform to the
height requirements listed in other zoning districts of this title. (Ord. 2001-
2, 6-12-2001)
10-2J-5: BASIS FOR APPROVAL OF THE PETITION:
   A.   The planning commission in making its recommendation and the city
council in making its determination, shall consider:
   B.   That the proposed planned unit development district is consistent in
all respects to the purpose of this section and to the spirit and intent of
this title; is in conformity with the adopted comprehensive plan or any adopted
component thereof; and, that the development would not be contrary to the
general welfare and economic prosperity of the community.
   C.   The planning commission shall specify lot area, width, yard, and height
requirements in the granting of a permit. Requirements may be greater or less
than those required in other districts. However, the planning commission shall
not grant approval for any building or structure exceeding forty five feet
(45') in height.
   D.   The planning commission in making its recommendations and the city
council in making its determination shall further find that:
      1.   The proposed site shall be provided with adequate drainage
facilities for surface and storm waters.
      2.   The proposed site shall be accessible from public roads that are
adequate to carry the traffic that can be expected to be generated by the
proposed development.
      3.   No undue constraint or burden will be imposed on public services and
facilities, such as fire and police protection, street maintenance, and
maintenance of public areas by the proposed development.
      4.   The streets and driveways on the site of the proposed development
shall be adequate to serve the residents of the proposed development and shall
meet the minimum standards of all applicable ordinances or administrative
regulations of the city.
      5.   Public water and sewer facilities shall be provided.
      6.   Natural areas such as significant woodlands, meadows, wetlands,
wildlife habitat areas, lakes, streams and floodplains shall be protected as
"environmental corridors". Environmental corridors shall not be used in the
calculation of residential densities within a planned unit development.
      7.   The entire tract or parcel of land to be included in a planned unit
development district shall be held under single ownership, or if there is more
than one owner, the petition for such planned unit development district shall
be considered as one tract, lot or parcel, and the legal description must
define said PUD as a single parcel, lot or tract and be so recorded with the
recorder of deeds for Hancock County.
   E.   That in the case of a proposed residential planned unit development
project:
      1.   Such development will create an attractive residential environment
of sustained desirability and economic stability, including structures in
relation to terrain, consideration of safe pedestrian flow, ready access to
recreation space, and coordination with overall plans for the community.
      2.   The total net density within the planned unit development district
will be compatible with the density of development either existing or permitted
in areas adjacent to the proposed PUD project.
      3.   Provision has been made for the installation of adequate public
facilities and the continuing maintenance and operation of such facilities.
      4.   Adequate, continuing fire and police protection is available.
      5.   The population composition of the development will not have an
adverse effect upon the community's capacity to provide needed school or other
municipal service facilities.
      6.   Adequate guarantee is provided for permanent preservation of open
space areas as shown on the approved site plan either by private reservation
and maintenance or by dedication to the public.
   F.   That in the case of a proposed commercial planned unit development
project:
      1.   The proposed development will be adequately served by off street
parking and truck service facilities.
      2.   The proposed development shall be adequately provided with and shall
not impose any undue burden on public services and facilities such as fire and
police protection, street maintenance, and maintenance of public areas.
      3.   The locations for entrances and exits have been designated to
prevent unnecessary interference with the safe and efficient movement of
traffic on surrounding streets, and that the development will not create an
adverse affect upon the general traffic pattern of the surrounding
neighborhood.
      4.   The architectural design, landscaping, control of lighting, and
general site development will result in an attractive and harmonious service
area compatible with and not adversely affecting the property values of the
surrounding neighborhood.
   G.   That in the case of a proposed industrial planned unit development
project:
      1.   The operational character, physical plant arrangement, and
architectural design of buildings will be compatible with the latest in
performance standards and industrial development design and will not result in
adverse affect upon the property values of the surrounding neighborhood.
      2.   The proposed development shall be adequately provided with and shall
not impose any undue burden on public services and facilities, such as fire and
police protection, street maintenance, and maintenance of public areas.
      3.   The proposed development will include adequate provisions for off
street parking and truck service areas.
      4.   The proposed development is properly related to the total
transportation system of the community and will not result in an adverse affect
on the safety and efficiency of the public streets.
   H.   That in the case of a mixed use planned unit development project:
      1.   The proposed mixture of uses produces a unified composite which is
compatible with development in the surrounding neighborhood.
      2.   The various types of uses conform to the general requirements as
hereinbefore set forth, applicable to projects of such use and character.
      3.   The proposed development shall be adequately provided with and shall
not impose any undue burden on public services and facilities, such as fire and
police protection, street maintenance, and maintenance of public areas. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2J-6: DETERMINATION:
The city council, after due consideration, may deny the petition, approve the
petition as submitted, or approve the petition subject to additional conditions
and restrictions. The approval of a planned unit development district shall be
based upon and include as conditions hereto the building, site and operational
plans for the development as approved by the city council. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-
2001)
10-2J-7: CHANGES AND ADDITIONS:
Any subsequent change or addition to the plans or uses shall first be submitted
for approval to the planning commission and if in the opinion of the planning
commission, such change or addition constitutes a substantial alteration of the
original plan, a public hearing before the planning commission shall be
required and notice thereof be given pursuant to the provisions of this title,
and said proposed alterations shall be submitted to the city council for
approval. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2J-8: SUBSEQUENT LAND DIVISIONS:
The division of any land or lands within a planned unit development district
for the purpose of change or conveyance of ownership shall be accomplished
pursuant to the subdivision regulations of the city and when such division is
contemplated, a preliminary plat of lands to be divided shall accompany the
petition for PUD approval. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2J-9: DEVELOPMENT OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS:
It shall be the policy of the city of Nauvoo to create planned unit development
districts only in those areas where a detailed unified development plan has
been presented and approved. In areas where approved plans have not been
implemented within twelve (12) months, the PUD designation shall be deemed null
and void and the subject property shall revert to the previous zoning
classification affixed to that property, or the planning commission shall
initiate such zoning changes as it deems necessary to serve the public
interest. Existing undeveloped planned unit development districts shall be
reviewed annually in April by the planning commission and a report regarding
the disposition of that district shall be made to the city council. (Ord. 2001-
2, 6-12-2001)
10-2J-10: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Spaces for off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-2J-11: SITE PLANS:
Site plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of
this title for all uses permitted in this district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 3
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-3-1: Statement Of Intent
10-3-2: General Provisions
10-3-3: Off Street Parking Requirements
10-3-4: CBD Off Street Parking Requirements
10-3-5: Exclusions, Reductions And Exceptions From The Parking Requirements
10-3-6: Site Development And Construction Requirements
10-3-7: Physically Handicapped Off Street Parking Provisions
10-3-8: Landscaping
10-3-9: Area Requirements For Off Street Loading/Unloading
10-3-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter that off street parking and
loading areas be provided and adequately maintained in every zoning district
for the purposes of promoting safe and efficient parking of motor vehicles; to
avoid unnecessary congestion and interference with public use of streets; and
to protect and preserve the appearance, character, and value of the surrounding
neighborhoods. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-3-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   In all zoning districts, off street parking and loading requirements
shall be provided in amounts not less than specified for the various districts.
   B.   The planning commission, after consultation with the city engineer,
shall make a determination, in the cases of uses not listed in section
10-3-3 of this chapter of the minimum required off street parking spaces.
In reaching the determination, the planning commission and the city engineer,
shall be guided by the requirements for similar uses, the number and kind of
vehicles likely to be attracted to the proposed use and studies of the parking
requirements of such uses in other jurisdictions.
The planning commission may approve alternative parking standards in situations
where an applicant can sufficiently demonstrate that a particular situation is
unusual, unique, or poses practical difficulty, and upon submission of adequate
technical justification such as independent parking analysis, Urban Land
Institute (ULI) or Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) parking
standards, or similar justification.
   C.   Additional parking shall be provided and maintained in proper ratio to
any increase in floor area or building use capacity.
   D.   For the purposes of determining off street parking and loading
requirements, the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   "Usable floor area" as applied to offices, merchandising or service
types of uses, shall mean the floor area used or intended to be used for
services to the public as customers, patrons, clients, patients, or tenants,
including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of
merchandise, but excluding floor areas which are used exclusively for storage,
for housing of mechanical equipment integral to the building, for maintenance
facilities, stairwells, restrooms, or for those areas so restricted that
customers, patients, clients, salesmen, and the general public are denied
access. Measurement of usable floor area shall be the sum of the horizontal
area of each story of a structure measured from the interior faces of the
exterior walls.
      2.   Where benches, pews or other similar seating facilities are used as
seats, each twenty four inches (24") of such seating facilities shall be
counted as one seat.
   E.   In the case of mixed uses in the same building at the same time, the
total requirements for off street parking and loading shall be the sum of the
requirements for the separate individual uses computed separately.
   F.   Joint or collective provision of off street parking for buildings or
uses on two (2) or more properties shall not be less than the sum of the
requirements for the participating individual uses computed separately.
   G.   It shall be unlawful to use any of the off street parking or loading
areas established to meet the requirements of this title for any purpose other
than the parking of licensed vehicles or the loading and unloading of necessary
service trucks.
   H.   Off street parking shall be no closer to any principal building than
five feet (5'). Bumper guards shall be installed to prevent yard encroachment.
   I.   In the residential zoning districts and in C and I districts within
fifty feet (50') of a residential zoning district, no parking space may be
located in a front yard.
   J.   Parking spaces may be provided in side and rear yards in the
residential zoning districts and in any yard in C and I districts except that
in the C and I districts no parking space may be provided in a front yard
unless the building is set back at least thirty feet (30') from the street, and
further provided that the parking use must conform to the permitted land use
for the district.
   K.   Parking spaces for any use specifically permitted in a residential
zoning district may be provided on a lot adjoining that use provided there is
compliance with all the requirements of subsections I and J of this section.
   L.   Where parking is provided in a commercial district adjacent to a
residential district or where five (5) or more parking spaces are provided for
use in a residential district adjacent to a residential district, all parking
spaces, loading spaces and drives, shall be set back from the residential
district fifteen feet (15'). This setback shall be a landscaped area providing
sight proof landscaping and/or fencing to screen the use from adjacent
properties as approved on a site plan per requirements in chapter 4 of this
title.
   M.   Where parking is provided in a manufacturing district adjacent to a
residential district, all parking spaces, loading spaces and internal drives
except for fire lanes, ingress and egress, shall be set back from the
residential district thirty feet (30'). This setback shall be a landscaped area
providing sight proof landscaping and/or fencing to screen the use from
adjacent properties as approved on a site plan per requirements in chapter 4 of
this title.
   N.   When determination of the number of off street parking spaces or
loading spaces required by this title results in a requirement of a fractional
space, any fraction in excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking
space; any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded.
   O.   No repairs or services to vehicles shall be carried on or permitted in
off street parking areas.
   P.   No vehicular display for purpose of sale shall be carried on or
permitted upon such premises unless such display is by a licensed automobile
dealer on a properly zoned parcel.
   Q.   In the residential zoning districts, the only off street parking
permitted is that parking which is an accessory use to the primary residential
dwelling. The use of an off street parking lot in a residential district by a
nearby or adjacent to a commercial use is prohibited.
   R.   Off street parking required for enlargements or change of use. Existing
buildings not complying with off street parking requirements may be remodeled,
repaired and structurally altered, but any enlargement or change of use of a
structure or building which would require a greater number of parking spaces
than was required for the prior use must provide the required parking spaces
for such enlargement or use. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-3-3: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum number of off street parking spaces, including garage parking
spaces, by type of use shall be determined in accordance with the following
schedule:
Use Minimum Number Of Standard Off Street
    Parking Spaces Per Unit Of Measure
                                                                                    Minimum Number
                                                                                    Of Standard
Use                                                                                 Off Street
                                                                                    Parking Spaces
                                                                                    Per Unit Of
                                                                                    Measure
A.   Residential And Housing Uses:                                                
                                                                                    1 space per
   1.   Bed and breakfast                                                     guestroom,
                                                                                    plus 2 spaces
                                                                                    for residents.
                                                                                    1 space per
   2.   Boarding house                                                        guestroom,
                                                                                    plus 2 spaces
                                                                                    for residents.
                                                                                    1 space for
   3.   Dormitory                                                             each 3 persons
                                                                                    in residence.
                                                                                    1 space for
   4.   Fraternity or sorority                                                each 3 persons
                                                                                    in residence.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 2 beds
   5.   Group homes, halfway houses, community living facilities              plus 1 space
                                                                                    for each
                                                                                    employee.
                                                                                    1 space for
   6.   Homes for the aged and convalescent homes                             each 4, plus 1
                                                                                    space for each
                                                                                    employee.
                                                                                    2 spaces for
   7.   Mobile home parks                                                     each dwelling
                                                                                    unit.
                                                                                    2 spaces for
   8.   Residential, multiple-family                                          each dwelling
                                                                                    unit.
                                                                                    2 spaces for
   9.   Residential, one-family and two-family                                each dwelling
                                                                                    unit.
                                                                                    2 spaces for
                                                                                    each dwelling
   10.   Timeshare/vacation home                                              unit
                                                                                    containing 3
                                                                                    or more
                                                                                    bedrooms.
B.   Institutional And Cultural:                                                  
   1.   Churches, temples buildings of similar use with fixed seats           1 space for
                                                                                    each 3 seats.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 1 teacher
                                                                                    and
                                                                                    administrator,
                                                                                    in addition to
   2.   Elementary and junior high                                            the
                                                                                    requirements
                                                                                    of the
                                                                                    auditorium
                                                                                    and/or similar
                                                                                    place(s) of
                                                                                    assembly.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 800
   3.   Libraries, museums and post office buildings                          square feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
                                                                                    area.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 5 persons
                                                                                    of legal
   4.   Lodge halls, meeting halls, and community centers or buildings of simicapacity as
use without fixed seats                                                             established by
                                                                                    local, county,
                                                                                    or state fire,
                                                                                    building or
                                                                                    health codes.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each employee.
                                                                                    Sufficient
                                                                                    area shall be
                                                                                    set aside for
                                                                                    dropping off
                                                                                    and picking up
   5.   Preschool childcare (day nurseries)                                   children in a
                                                                                    safe manner
                                                                                    that will not
                                                                                    cause the
                                                                                    children to
                                                                                    cross the
                                                                                    parking area
                                                                                    or lines of
                                                                                    traffic.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 300
                                                                                    square feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
   6.   Public office building not elsewhere specified                        area, plus 1
                                                                                    space for each
                                                                                    employee
                                                                                    employed
                                                                                    therein.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 1 teacher
                                                                                    and
                                                                                    administrator
                                                                                    and 1 space
                                                                                    for each 10
                                                                                    students, in
   7.   Senior high schools, vocational schools, and community colleges       addition to
                                                                                    the
                                                                                    requirements
                                                                                    of the
                                                                                    auditorium
                                                                                    and/or similar
                                                                                    place of
                                                                                    assembly.
   8.   Theaters and auditoriums                                              1 space for
                                                                                    each 4 seats.
C.   Business And Commercial:                                                     
   1.   Assembly halls, without fixed seats, for commercial recreation includi1 space for
dance halls, pool or billiard parlors, skating rinks and exhibition halls or        each 50 square
buildings for similar assembly uses                                                 feet of usable
                                                                                    floor area.
                                                                                    1 space per 2
                                                                                    seats or 2 per
                                                                                    100 square
   2.   Auction house                                                         feet of gross
                                                                                    leasable area,
                                                                                    whichever is
                                                                                    greater.
                                                                                    1 space per
   3.   Auto body shop                                                        service bay
                                                                                    and 1 space
                                                                                    per employee.
                                                                                    2 spaces for
                                                                                    each
                                                                                    lubrication
   4.   Automobile service stations                                           stall, rack or
                                                                                    pit, and 1
                                                                                    space for each
                                                                                    employee.
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    200 square
                                                                                    feet of usable
   5.   Auto parts store                                                      floor area,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
                                                                                    for each
                                                                                    employee.
                                                                                    1 space per
   6.   Auto rental                                                           400 square
                                                                                    feet of gross
                                                                                    floor area.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 1
                                                                                    employee. In
                                                                                    addition,
                                                                                    adequate
                                                                                    waiting space
                                                                                    for autos
   7.   Auto wash (automatic)                                                 shall be
                                                                                    provided on
                                                                                    the premises
                                                                                    to accommodate
                                                                                    50 percent of
                                                                                    the hourly
                                                                                    rate of
                                                                                    capacity.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 1
                                                                                    employee. In
                                                                                    addition,
                                                                                    adequate
                                                                                    waiting space
                                                                                    for autos
   8.   Auto wash (self-serve)                                                shall be
                                                                                    provided on
                                                                                    the premises
                                                                                    to accommodate
                                                                                    50 percent of
                                                                                    the hourly
                                                                                    rate of
                                                                                    capacity.
                                                                                    1 space per
   9.   Bait shop                                                             200 square
                                                                                    feet of usable
                                                                                    floor area.
                                                                                    2 spaces per
   10.   Beauty parlor or barbershop                                          beauty or
                                                                                    barber chair.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 200
                                                                                    square feet of
   11.   Convenience store                                                    usable floor
                                                                                    area, plus 1
                                                                                    space per
                                                                                    employee.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 15 square
                                                                                    feet of usable
   12.   Drive in restaurants or similar drive in uses for sale of beverages, floor area,
or refreshments                                                                     plus 1 space
                                                                                    for each 1
                                                                                    employee on
                                                                                    the largest
                                                                                    work shift.
                                                                                    For uses not
                                                                                    mentioned with
                                                                                    drive through
                                                                                    windows,
                                                                                    provide a
                                                                                    minimum of 3
                                                                                    stacking
                                                                                    spaces for
                                                                                    each drive
                                                                                    through
                                                                                    window. Each
                                                                                    line of
                                                                                    stacking space
                                                                                    must be at
   13.   Drive through facility (see also restaurant and bank drive through)  least 9 feet
                                                                                    wide and must
                                                                                    be delineated
                                                                                    with pavement
                                                                                    markings. Such
                                                                                    spaces shall
                                                                                    be designed so
                                                                                    as not to
                                                                                    impede
                                                                                    pedestrian or
                                                                                    vehicular
                                                                                    circulation on
                                                                                    the site or on
                                                                                    any abutting
                                                                                    street.
                                                                                    3 spaces, plus
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 500
   14.   Dry cleaning                                                         square feet of
                                                                                    gross floor
                                                                                    area in excess
                                                                                    of 1,000
                                                                                    square feet.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 400
                                                                                    square feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
                                                                                    area. (For
   15.   Furniture and appliance stores; household equipment repair shops; shothat floor
of a plumber, decorator, electrician or similar trade; shoe repair and other        area used in
similar uses                                                                        processing, 1
                                                                                    additional
                                                                                    space shall be
                                                                                    provided for
                                                                                    each 2 persons
                                                                                    employed
                                                                                    therein.)
                                                                                    1 space for
   16.   Laundromats and coin operated dry cleaners                           each 2 washing
                                                                                    machines.
                                                                                    1 space for
   17.   Mortuary establishments                                              each 50 square
                                                                                    feet of usable
                                                                                    floor space.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 1
                                                                                    occupancy
                                                                                    unit, plus 1
                                                                                    space for each
                                                                                    1 employee,
                                                                                    plus extra
                                                                                    spaces for
                                                                                    dining rooms
                                                                                    or meeting
   18.   Motel, hotel, or other commercial lodging establishments             rooms as
                                                                                    required by
                                                                                    subsections B4
                                                                                    and C20 of
                                                                                    this section
                                                                                    where the
                                                                                    capacity of
                                                                                    such areas
                                                                                    exceeds the
                                                                                    number of beds
                                                                                    in the
                                                                                    building.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 200
                                                                                    square feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
   19.   Motor vehicle, boat, camper, recreational vehicle sales and service  space of
establishments                                                                      salesroom and
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 1 auto
                                                                                    service stall
                                                                                    in the service
                                                                                    room.
                                                                                    1 space per
   20.   Restaurant or establishments for sale and consumption of beverages, f2.3 persons
or refreshments on the premises                                                     maximum
                                                                                    occupancy.
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    2.3 persons
                                                                                    maximum
                                                                                    occupancy. In
                                                                                    addition, a
                                                                                    minimum of 11
                                                                                    stacking
                                                                                    spaces are to
                                                                                    be provided
                                                                                    for the drive
                                                                                    through
                                                                                    window, with a
                                                                                    minimum of 5
                                                                                    spaces between
                                                                                    ordering and
                                                                                    pick up. Each
   21.   Restaurant with drive through window                                 line of
                                                                                    stacking space
                                                                                    must be at
                                                                                    least 9 feet
                                                                                    wide and must
                                                                                    be delineated
                                                                                    with pavement
                                                                                    markings. Such
                                                                                    spaces shall
                                                                                    be designed so
                                                                                    as not to
                                                                                    impede
                                                                                    pedestrian or
                                                                                    vehicular
                                                                                    circulation on
                                                                                    the site or on
                                                                                    any abutting
                                                                                    street.
                                                                                    1 space for
   22.   Retail stores except as otherwise specified herein (includes antique each 200
stores and antique malls)                                                           square feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
                                                                                    space.
D.   Offices:                                                                     
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 150
   1.   Banks or other financial institutions without drive through facilitiessquare feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
                                                                                    space.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 150
                                                                                    square feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
                                                                                    space, plus 5
                                                                                    stacking
                                                                                    spaces for
                                                                                    each drive
                                                                                    through teller
                                                                                    station,
                                                                                    including
                                                                                    automatic
                                                                                    teller
                                                                                    machines. Each
                                                                                    lane of
   2.   Banks or other financial institutions with drive through facilities   stacking space
                                                                                    must be at
                                                                                    least 9 feet
                                                                                    wide and must
                                                                                    be delineated
                                                                                    with pavement
                                                                                    markings. Such
                                                                                    spaces shall
                                                                                    be designed so
                                                                                    as not to
                                                                                    impede
                                                                                    pedestrian or
                                                                                    vehicular
                                                                                    circulation on
                                                                                    the site or on
                                                                                    any abutting
                                                                                    street.
                                                                                    1 space for
   3.   Business offices or professional offices except as indicated in subseceach 200
D4, D5 and D6 of this section                                                       square feet of
                                                                                    usable space.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 300
   4.   Equipment rental and leasing                                          square feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
                                                                                    area.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 800
   5.   Exterminators                                                         square feet of
                                                                                    gross floor
                                                                                    area.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 25 square
                                                                                    feet of usable
                                                                                    floor area in
                                                                                    waiting rooms,
   6.   Professional offices of doctors, dentists, veterinarians, or similar  and 1 space
professions                                                                         for each
                                                                                    examining
                                                                                    room, dental
                                                                                    chair, or
                                                                                    similar use
                                                                                    area.
E.   Recreational:                                                                
                                                                                    0.7 spaces for
                                                                                    every berth or
                                                                                    mooring, 2
                                                                                    spaces for
                                                                                    every 3
                                                                                    employees on
                                                                                    the largest
                                                                                    work shift,
   1.   Boat dock, harbor, marinas                                            plus 1 space
                                                                                    for every
                                                                                    vehicle
                                                                                    customarily
                                                                                    used in
                                                                                    operation of
                                                                                    the use or
                                                                                    stored on the
                                                                                    premises.
                                                                                    4 spaces for
                                                                                    each 1 bowling
                                                                                    lane plus 1
                                                                                    space per
                                                                                    employee, in
   2.   Bowling alleys                                                        addition to
                                                                                    requirements
                                                                                    for a place
                                                                                    serving food
                                                                                    or beverages
                                                                                    on the site.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 300
   3.   Dance school, gymnastics and fitness complex, community center        square feet of
                                                                                    usable floor
                                                                                    space.
                                                                                    6 spaces for
                                                                                    each golf hole
                                                                                    and 1 space
   4.   Golf course                                                           for each
                                                                                    employee on
                                                                                    the largest
                                                                                    work shift.
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    tee, plus 1
   5.   Golf driving range                                                    space per
                                                                                    employee on
                                                                                    the largest
                                                                                    work shift.
                                                                                    3 spaces for
                                                                                    each 1 hole
   6.   Miniature or par 3 golf courses                                       plus 1 space
                                                                                    for each 1
                                                                                    employee.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 2 member
                                                                                    families or
                                                                                    individuals,
                                                                                    plus spaces
   7.   Private golf clubs, swimming pool clubs, tennis clubs, or other similarequired for
uses                                                                                each accessory
                                                                                    area such as a
                                                                                    restaurant,
                                                                                    bar, pro shop,
                                                                                    or equipment
                                                                                    sales.
                                                                                    2 spaces for
                                                                                    every 100
                                                                                    square feet of
                                                                                    water area,
   8.   Public swimming pool                                                  plus 1 space
                                                                                    for each
                                                                                    employee on
                                                                                    the largest
                                                                                    work shift.
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 3 seats
   9.   Stadium, sports arena, or similar place of assembly                   or 6 feet of
                                                                                    benches, and 1
                                                                                    space for each
                                                                                    1 employee.
F.   Industrial:                                                                  
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    every employee
                                                                                    on the largest
                                                                                    work shift,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
   1.   Manufacturing, fabrication, sheet metal and welding shops, junkyards, for every
salvage yards, meatpacking plants, wholesale distribution, warehouses, reclamation  vehicle
plants, mail order sales                                                            customarily
                                                                                    used in
                                                                                    operation of
                                                                                    the use or
                                                                                    stored on the
                                                                                    premises.
                                                                                    
 
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-3-4: CBD OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to apply flexible
off street parking and loading requirements for the central business district
(CBD). The goal is to accommodate the special needs of the area, encourage and
promote redevelopment, optimize existing parking facilities, promote shared
parking and public transportation, and prevent existing historic structures
from being demolished for new parking areas. The parking regulations are waived
in the CBD to aid in the renewal and rebuilding of the downtown.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   For purposes of this section, the central business district (CBD)
shall be defined as areas with CBD zoning.
      2.   All buildings in the CBD are exempt from parking requirements. The
private market will ensure an adequate parking supply.
      3.   No off street parking spaces shall be permitted in front of a
structure.
      4.   The reciprocal (shared) use of parking facilities provided to serve
any property or use is encouraged in the CBD. The applicant shall show that
there is no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the
buildings or uses for which the reciprocal use of parking is proposed. A
reciprocal parking agreement shall be approved by the planning commission and
recorded with the Hancock County recorder's office.
      5.   All shared parking facilities shall be located within six hundred
feet (600') (horizontal distance) of the use served.
      6.   Shared parking proposals involving existing municipal parking lots
shall be reviewed during the site plan review process.
      7.   The use of parking lot landscaping at the perimeter, adjacent to
streets and on landscape islands is strongly encouraged but not required. If
landscaping is to be provided, a landscaping plan shall be submitted with the
site plan for review by the planning commission.
      8.   Property owners seeking to demolish historic structures in the CBD
shall comply with section
6-2-1, "Destruction To Historical Buildings Restricted", of this code.
      9.   Where parking is provided in the CBD adjacent to a residential
zoning district, all parking spaces, loading spaces and drives shall be set
back from the residential zoning district ten feet (10'). This setback shall
provide sight proof landscaping and/or fencing to screen the use from adjacent
properties as approved on a site plan per requirements in chapter 4 of this
title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-3-5: EXCLUSIONS, REDUCTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS FROM THE PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Off street parking and loading regulations shall not apply to uses
approved or existing prior to the enactment of this title. All off street
parking regulations do not apply to the central business district except in
case of new structures or additions, then parking regulations shall be followed
as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 2007-11, 5-13-2008)
   B.   The planning commission or their authorized designee may grant a
parking reduction for commercial developments, industrial developments and
mixed use developments not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of the required
parking. For parking reductions greater than twenty percent (20%) of the
required parking, the applicant must petition the zoning board of appeals. To
qualify, the applicant must submit documentation which meets the following
criteria, as applicable, during the site plan review process:
      1.   The parking needs will be adequately served.
      2.   A mix of residential uses with either office or retail uses is
proposed, and the parking needs of all uses will be accommodated through shared
parking.
      3.   If shared use of common parking is proposed, varying time periods of
use will accommodate proposed parking needs. The applicant shall show there is
no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the buildings or
uses (activities) for which the shared use of parking is proposed.
      4.   The applicant provides an acceptable proposal for an alternate mode
of transportation program, including a description of existing and proposed
facilities and assurances that the use of alternate modes of transportation
will continue to reduce the need for on site parking on an ongoing basis.
      5.   The joint use of abutting traversable driveways on adjoining
properties may be permitted to satisfy the driveway requirements of this title
subject to the following conditions:
         a.   A recordable instrument conveying the right of shared use, duly
executed by the affected property owners, is furnished to corporate counsel and
recorded by the Hancock County recorder of deeds;
         b.   Said instrument is approved by the corporate counsel; and
         c.   Said instrument shall clearly state that it is terminable only
with the consent of the city of Nauvoo.
   C.   If any reduction sought under this section is directly related to the
nature of the use and occupancy of the property, any material change in such
use of occupancy shall nullify such reduction. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-3-6: SITE DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Paved And Drainage: Off street parking and loading for all uses except
single-family dwelling units shall be paved and shall be provided with adequate
drainage to dispose of all surface water.
   B.   Safety Curbs: Where any parking area adjoins an existing or proposed
sidewalk, the owner shall erect safety curbs on the private property to prevent
vehicles from crossing the sidewalk, excepting in the case of a single-family
lot.
   C.   Pavement Surface: Loading areas, parking lots, driveways, accessways
and any other areas on which motor vehicles are parked or stored, or which are
used for motor vehicle circulation, shall be constructed with a dust free
surface. Acceptable pavement surfaces include concrete, asphalt, or oil and
chip. Concrete wheel stops shall be used on oil and chip surfaces to designate
the parking stalls in lieu of painted striping. Property owners are allowed to
have a temporary gravel surface for a maximum period of one year. This
stipulation is intended to allow time for settlement, compaction or allow for
off season construction.
   D.   Curbs And Gutters: Combination concrete curbs and gutters or concrete
barrier curbs are required around all landscape islands. The materials and
design shall conform to the specifications contained in the most recent edition
of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", adopted by
the Illinois department of transportation.
   E.   Striping: Single striping shall be provided for all parking stalls as a
minimum. Each stripe shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in width and
eighteen feet (18') in length for each parking space. Striping of each parking
space shall be painted in yellow or white. Thermoplastic pavement markings are
an acceptable alternative. All areas designated as fire lanes shall be marked
by posting of signs and/or yellow markings, provided that signs shall be used
wherever feasible.
   F.   Restriping: Parking lots existing prior to the date of this title may
be restriped in the course of normal maintenance in accordance with their
original plans and requirements.
   G.   Parking Lot Design: The following are requirements for parking lot
design:
      1.   Circulation aisles shall align with one another.
      2.   Smooth and efficient on site circulation must be provided.
      3.   Shared interconnects and shared driveways with adjoining properties
shall be provided wherever feasible as determined by the planning commission or
their authorized designee.
      4.   All parking stalls shall have a minimum dimension of nine feet (9')
wide by eighteen feet (18') long. This rectangular area must be included in all
shapes of parking stalls for any angle of parking. An automobile overhang may
be included in stall depth calculations where such overhang does not extend
beyond a required parking setback line or encroach upon a sidewalk. When an
automobile overhang beyond an installed curb is included in the stall depth
calculation, such overhang shall be considered as part of the parking stall for
landscaping or setback purposes.
   H.   Access: Except on lots accommodating single-family dwellings, each off
street parking space shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway at least
twelve feet (12') wide for one-way travel or twenty four feet (24') wide for
two-way travel. However, a ten foot (10') wide aisle for one-way travel is
permitted provided that there are no points of vehicular or pedestrian access
to any building from the driving aisle. The minimum width of an access drive
intersecting a street or alley is twenty four feet (24') for two-way travel or
twelve feet (12') for one-way travel. The minimum return radius from an access
drive to a street or alley shall be twenty feet (20') as measured from the back
of the curb wherever possible.
   I.   Maintenance: Upon completion, all parking areas shall be properly
maintained at all times, without potholes, broken curbing, or other
irregularities. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-3-7: PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED OFF STREET PARKING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Required Number Of Spaces: If any parking is provided for employees,
visitors, or both, the minimum number of accessible parking spaces to be
provided for handicapped persons shall be according to the current edition of
the Illinois accessibility code. Accessible parking spaces to be provided for
handicapped persons are as follows:
   SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Total Off Street Parking Spaces Provided  Number Of Accessible Parking Spaces
                                          Required
Total Off Street Parking Spaces Provided   Number Of Accessible Parking Spaces
                                           Required
   1 to 25                             1
   26 to 50                            2
   51 to 75                            3
   76 to 100                           4
   101 to 150                          5
   151 to 200                          6
   201 to 300                          7
   301 to 400                          8
   401 to 500                          9
   501 to 1,000                        2 percent of total number
   Over 1,000                          20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
Medical facilities specializing in
treatment of persons with mobility        20 percent of total number
impairments
Outpatient medical facilities             10 percent of total number
 
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
Note: If only one space is provided, it must be van accessible. (Ord. 2007-16,
6-10-2008)
   B.   Location: Accessible parking spaces shall be placed on the shortest
accessible route to an accessible entrance of the building. The accessible
parking space shall be placed nearest an existing ramp, even if it means
placing the space further from the accessible door. The ramp, however, must not
be placed in an access aisle. If a curb ramp is new, both the curb ramp and the
accessible parking space must be closest to the accessible entrance. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
   C.   General Provisions: Accessible car and van parking spaces shall comply
with ICC/ANSI A177.1, chapter 5, section 502.
      1.   Vehicle Space Size: Car parking spaces shall be ninety six inches
(96") (2,440 mm) minimum in width. Van parking spaces shall be one hundred
thirty two inches (132") (3,350 mm) minimum in width.
         a.   Exception: Van parking spaces shall be permitted to be ninety six
inches (96") (2,440 mm) minimum in width where the adjacent access aisle is
ninety six inches (96") (2,440 mm) minimum in width.
Figure 502.2 Vehicle Parking Space Size
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1408.gif]
      2.   Vehicle Space Marking: Car and van parking spaces shall be marked to
define the width. Where parking spaces are marked with lines, the width
measurements of parking spaces and adjacent access aisles shall be made from
the centerline of the markings.
      3.   Access Aisle: Car and van parking spaces shall have an adjacent
access aisle complying with figure 502.4 of this section.
Figure 502.4 Parking Space Access Aisle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1410.gif]
      4.   Location: Access aisles shall adjoin an accessible route. Two (2)
parking spaces shall be permitted to share a common access aisle with the
access aisle on the passenger side of the van space. Access aisles shall not
overlap with the vehicular way. Parking spaces shall be permitted to have
access aisles placed on either side of the car or van parking space. Van
parking spaces that are angled shall have access aisles located on the
passenger side of the parking space.
      5.   Width: Access aisles serving car and van parking spaces shall be
sixty inches (60") (1,525 mm) minimum in width.
      6.   Length: Access aisles shall extend the full length of the parking
spaces they serve.
      7.   Marking: Access aisles shall be marked so as to discourage parking
in them. Where access aisles are marked with lines, the width measurements of
access aisles and adjacent parking spaces shall be made from the centerline of
the markings. (ICC/ANSI A177.1, chapter 5, 502.2-502.4.4, 2003.)
   D.   Parking Surfaces: Surfaces shall be stable, firm and slip resistant.
Changes in level of surfaces shall comply with section 303 (ICC/ANSI A117.1,
2003).
   E.   Signage: Each handicapped parking space shall have a painted
international symbol of accessibility on the pavement. In addition, all
facilities shall mount on a permanent post, or wall, in the center of
accessible parking spaces the following appropriate sign: a U.S. department of
transportation R7-8 (reserved parking) sign, R7-8A (handicap parking) sign or
R7-8C (van handicap parking) sign. Fines shall meet Illinois vehicle code (see
subsection
 9-2-3F of this code). These signs shall be posted no lower than four feet (4')
aboveground and no more than five feet (5') from the front of the space. (Ord.
2007-16, 6-10-2008)
10-3-8: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of these regulations to provide
adequate protection for contiguous property against undesirable effects caused
by the creation and operation of parking and loading areas, and to protect and
preserve the appearance and character of the surrounding neighborhoods through
the screening effects and aesthetic qualities of landscaping. The addition of
landscaping in parking lots adjacent to streets, along the perimeter and in
landscape islands is recommended when feasible. Landscaping not only improves
the parking area aesthetically, but it provides a safety barrier between
vehicles and pedestrians, it absorbs noise, traps dust, controls erosion,
allows groundwater recharge, reduces the intrusion of headlights and other
glare, and it provides a natural habitat for birds and other animal life.
   B.   Landscaping: Landscaping in parking lots adjacent to streets and around
parking lots is recommended to improve the aesthetics of parking lots and to
increase the amount of pervious surfaces which reduces the water runoff.
Creative and attractive landscape designs are encouraged where landscaping is
incorporated into the design of berms, fences, walls, etc.
If the property owner decides to install landscaping, the following items
should be considered in order for the landscaping to survive and be successful:
      1.   Landscaping materials that are hardy and native to the area should
be selected wherever feasible and the plantings should be free of insects and
diseases.
      2.   Existing trees should be preserved to the greatest extent possible
and incorporated into the design of the parking lot.
      3.   When selecting the landscaping species and location, consideration
should be given to the location of underground and overhead utilities to avoid
any interference.
      4.   Landscaping islands should be adequately sized to protect the
landscaping to ensure its survival. Examples of minimal landscape island
dimensions to consider are shown in figures 2, 3, and 4 of this section.
      5.   The best professional practices of the American society of landscape
architects regarding planting, installation, trimming, fertilizing and other
maintenance should be followed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1412.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1414.gif]
 
   C.   Quality: Plant material and grasses shall be of generally acceptable
varieties and species, free of insects and diseases, and hardy to the Nauvoo
area.
   D.   Maintenance Of Landscaping And Screening: All landscaping and screening
should be installed and permanently maintained as follows:
      1.   All new landscaped areas should be installed within six (6) months
after the occupancy or use of the building or premises. Dead plant materials
should be replaced within twelve (12) months with living plant material, taking
into consideration the season of the year, and shall have at least the same
quantity and quality of landscaping as initially approved. This includes, but
is not limited to, the replacement of plants damaged by insects, diseases,
vehicular traffic, acts of God, and vandalism.
      2.   All landscaping and screening should be maintained in a healthy,
neat, trimmed, clean and weed free condition. Landscaped areas should be
covered with either grass and/or other types of pervious ground cover located
beneath and surrounding the trees and shrubs.
      3.   Landscaped areas within and immediately adjacent to an off street
parking or loading area should be protected from the encroachment of motor
vehicles by placing, along the entire perimeter of the landscaped area, a six
inch (6") concrete curb or other curbing material per the requirements in
section
10-3-6 of this chapter.
   E.   Visibility: Parking lots and loading areas shall not allow foliage or
other landscape screening structures to obstruct visibility or to create
hazards for ingress or egress to these areas. Opaque landscaping, berms, fences
or walls shall be no higher than thirty inches (30") in such locations where
vehicular or pedestrian safety is a factor.
   F.   Outdoor Refuse Collection: Refuse areas shall not be located within
front yards or within required parking setbacks. Outdoor refuse collection
containers and similar facilities shall be screened from public view on all
four (4) sides. The area shall be visually screened with an opaque material,
which may include shrubs, walls, fences or berms that are a minimum of six feet
(6') in height. Single-family homes shall be exempt from this provision. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-3-9: AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF STREET LOADING/UNLOADING:
   A.   Purpose: The following regulations, applicable to new construction in
all zoning districts except for single-family lots, are established to increase
safety and decrease congestion in the public streets, to set standards for the
requirement of off street loading facilities in proportion to the amount of
traffic generated by each use, and to eliminate the on street parking of
vehicles along major traffic routes.
   B.   Location: All required loading berths shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use served. No loading berth for vehicles over two (2) tons
shall be closer than fifty feet (50') to any property in a residential
district. No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within twenty
five feet (25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2) streets. No
loading berths shall be located in required side yards.
   C.   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Size: The number and size of loading spaces must be equal to the
maximum number and size of vehicles which would be simultaneously loaded or
unloaded in connection with the business conducted on the property.
Each required loading berth shall have a minimum width of twelve feet (12') and
a minimum vertical clearance of fourteen feet (14') above finished grade of the
space. The length shall be a minimum of thirty feet (30') for local delivery
and sixty feet (60') for semitrailers.
      2.   Access: Each required off street loading berth shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which will least interfere with traffic movements.
      3.   Projection: No portion of a vehicle shall project into a street,
drive, alley, or other public right of way while being loaded or unloaded.
      4.   Exclusive Use: Spaces allocated to any off street loading shall not,
while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
      5.   Surfacing: All open off street loading finish surfaces shall comply
with the provisions in section
10-3-6 of this chapter.
   D.   Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind
shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
residential or commercial district. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 4
LANDSCAPE BUFFERS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Statement Of Intent
10-4-2: General Provisions
10-4-3: Minimum Planting Requirements
10-4-4: Buffer Requirements
10-4-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The intent of these requirements shall be to enhance the visual and aesthetic
appearance of the city; provide space definition and landscape continuity
between the built environment and the natural environment; provide appropriate
barrier and relief from traffic, noise, heat, glare and the spread of dust and
debris; reduce the impact of development on the community's storm drainage
system and reduce flooding; aid in the conservation of energy; replenish the
atmosphere with oxygen; provide for a more pleasant and relaxing urban
environment; and increase property values. Furthermore, the intent shall be to
create a screen between residential zoning districts and other zoning districts
or to screen certain uses in order to minimize potential nuisances such as
noise, dust, odor and light glare; to reduce the visual impact of unsightly
aspects of adjacent development to provide for the separation spaces; and to
establish a sense of privacy. Existing vegetation should be preserved to the
greatest extent possible and innovative designs that combine landscaping with
walls, fences and berms are strongly encouraged. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-4-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Regulations Not Applicable: The regulations herein do not apply to one-
and two-family residential dwellings on a single lot.
   B.   Landscaped Buffer Areas: Landscaped buffer areas shall be located
generally parallel and within the perimeter of a lot or parcel and extending to
the lot or parcel boundary line. Landscaped buffer areas shall be a minimum of
five feet (5') in width and located in the required side and rear yard
setbacks. Buffers shall not be located on any portion of an existing, dedicated
or reserved public or private street right of way. In addition, nothing shall
be planted or installed within an underground or overhead utility easement or a
drainage easement without the consent of the city. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
   C.   Minimum Standards: The provisions of required buffers, as specified in
these regulations in chart 1, "Landscape Buffers", of this chapter, are minimum
standards. None of the provisions of these regulations shall be construed as
prohibiting additional plant material, screening and/or land above that
required by these regulations or to prohibit the modification of existing
buffers to perform to an equivalent degree as the buffer required by these
regulations. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
   D.   Fences And Walls: All opaque fences and walls shall be not less than
six feet (6') in height nor more than eight feet (8') in height and constructed
of durable materials. No walls of exposed cinder block are permitted. No opaque
fence or wall shall be higher than thirty inches (30") in such locations where
vehicular or pedestrian safety is a factor (e.g., street intersections and
driveways).
   E.   Two Identical Zoning Districts: Landscape buffers are not required
between two (2) identical zoning districts (e.g., commercial and commercial or
residential multi-family development and residential multi-family development)
but they are encouraged for increased aesthetic value.
   F.   Species: Landscaping species should be hardy and native to the area and
free of insects and diseases.
   G.   Selection: When selecting the landscaping species and location,
consideration should be given to the location of underground and overhead
utilities to avoid any interference.
   H.   Location: Location of plants and design of landscaping, including
maintenance, shall be according to sound landscape and horticulture principles.
   I.   Screening: The landscaping used to provide screening must reach the
required height within three (3) years from the date of planting.
   J.   Existing Plants: Existing plant material located within the proposed
buffer area which meets the requirements of these regulations may be counted as
contributing to the total buffer required between adjacent land uses.
   K.   Maintenance Of Landscaping And Screening: All landscaping and screening
should be installed and permanently maintained as follows:
      1.   All new landscaped areas should be installed within six (6) months
after the occupancy or use of the building or premises. Dead plant materials
should be replaced within twelve (12) months with living plant material, taking
into consideration the season of the year, and shall have at least the same
quantity and quality, of landscaping as initially approved. This includes, but
is not limited to, the replacement of plants damaged by insects, diseases,
vehicular traffic, acts of God, and vandalism.
      2.   All landscaping and screening should be maintained in a healthy,
neat, trimmed, clean and weed free condition. Landscaped areas should be
covered with either grass and/or other types of pervious ground cover located
beneath and surrounding the trees and shrubs. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
   L.   Streets: Streets shall not be considered part of the buffer
requirement. (Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-4-3: MINIMUM PLANTING REQUIREMENTS:
Minimum planting requirements shall be as follows:
   A.   Medium and large deciduous shade trees - two inch (2") caliper as
measured six inches (6") above the ground.
   B.   Small deciduous and ornamental trees - six feet (6') in height, with
the exception of true dwarf species.
   C.   Conifers - four (4) to five feet (5') in height.
   D.   Upright evergreen trees - four feet (4') in height except for true
dwarf species.
   E.   Shrubs - twelve inches (12") in height.
   F.   Earthen berms shall not be less than 1.5 feet in height and shall be
covered with grass or other living vegetative ground cover with a minimum side
slope of two to one (2:1).
   G.   All buffer yard areas shall be seeded with lawn grass or suitable
ground cover. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-4-4: BUFFER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscape buffer requirements are waived in the central business
district due to lot size constraints.
   B.   Landscape buffers for planned unit developments shall be reviewed on a
case by case basis by the planning commission.
   C.   A maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the required number of trees may
consist of a mix of ornamental and evergreen trees.
   D.   Where a residential use adjoins a nonresidential use and both are
located in a nonresidential zoning district, minimal screening shall be
required. The minimum buffer shall be determined by the planning commission on
a case by case basis during the site plan review process. This provision is to
buffer the residential use until the time that such property is developed for
nonresidential purposes.
   E.   Generally, landscaping required by this title should be in an irregular
line and spaced at random. For example, when the regulations require at least
one tree for each forty feet (40') to be planted in the buffer area, this
should not be construed as requiring the planting of trees on forty foot (40')
centers.
   CHART 1
   LANDSCAPE BUFFERS
   BUFFER TYPES IN PROPOSED ZONING
Existing
Adjoining RR R RMF RMH TTP OM C CBD I
Zoning
Existing
Adjoining RR R  RMF RMH TTP OM  C  CBD I
Zoning
RR        *  *  D   C   C   **  B  *   A
R         *  *  D   C   C   **  B  *   A
RMF       D  D  *   C   C   **  B  *   A
RMH       C  C  C   *   *   C   C  *   A
TTP       C  C  C   *   *   C   C  *   A
OM        ** ** **  C   C   *   ** n/a **
C         B  B  B   C   C   **  *  *   D
CBD       *  *  *   *   *   n/a *  *   n/a
I         A  A  A   A   A   **  D  n/a *
 
Notes to chart:
*     =     No buffer necessary.
**     =     District allows various uses; refer to typical buffer for that
zoning district.
n/a     =     Not applicable.
BUFFER TYPES
Buffer A: 8 foot opaque fence or wall, 3 canopy trees and 2 understory trees
for each 100 feet.
Buffer B:
   Option 1: An ornamental masonry wall or opaque fence at least 6 feet in
height above grade with 3 canopy trees for each 100 feet.
   Option 2: A mix of trees and shrubs that may be expected to form a 6 foot
screen within 3 years of planting.
Buffer C: 3 canopy trees, 1 understory tree and 10 shrubs for each 100 feet.
Buffer D: 2 canopy trees, and 10 shrubs for each 100 feet.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 5
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose And Intent
10-5-2: Compliance
10-5-3: Signs Permitted In Districts Without A Permit
10-5-4: Signs Permitted In All Residential Districts With A Permit
10-5-5: Signs Permitted In All Nonresidential Districts With A Permit
10-5-6: Portable Signs
10-5-7: Lighting And Color
10-5-8: Construction And Maintenance Standards
10-5-9: Existing Signs
10-5-10: Sign Permit
10-5-11: Measuring Signs
10-5-12: Sample Form
10-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The intent of this title is to provide for and regulate the location and safe
construction of signs in a manner to ensure that signs are compatible with
surrounding land uses, are well maintained, and express the identity of
individual proprietors and the city as a whole. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-2: COMPLIANCE:
No sign shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged, converted or structurally altered without conforming with the
provisions of this chapter. For sign types that are not included herein (e.g.,
provisions for multi-tenant buildings, wall murals, etc.), the sign design
shall be reviewed and approved by the planning commission. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-
2001)
10-5-3: SIGNS PERMITTED IN DISTRICTS WITHOUT A PERMIT:
The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts, without a permit,
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Real Estate Signs: Real estate signs are not to exceed eight (8) square
feet in area which advertise the sale, rental, or lease of the premises upon
which said signs are temporarily located.
   B.   Name And Warning Signs: Name and warning signs are not to exceed two
(2) square feet located on the premises.
   C.   Home Occupation And Professional Home Office Signs: Home occupation and
professional home office signs are not to exceed four (4) square feet in area.
   D.   Rummage Sale And Garage Sale Signs: Rummage and garage sale signs;
provided that no such signs shall be erected or placed within a public right of
way and further provided that such signs are removed within twenty four (24)
hours following the sale.
   E.   Bulletin Boards: Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious
institutions not to exceed eight (8) square feet in area located on the
premises.
   F.   Building Identification Signs: Memorial signs, tablets, names of
buildings, and date of erection when cut into any masonry surface or when
constructed of metal and affixed flat against a structure.
   G.   Flags: Flags of any nation, state, county, city or other governmental
unit and any not for profit organization.
   H.   Temporary Holiday Displays: Temporary decorations or displays
celebrating the occasion of traditionally accepted patriotic, religious or
local holidays or events.
   I.   Traffic Signs: The erection, construction and maintenance of official
traffic, fire and police signs, signals and devices and markings of the state,
county or city.
   J.   Directional Sign: Nonilluminated directional or informational signs of
a public nature.
   K.   Political Signs: Political signs or signs announcing political
candidates or issues, provided they are erected not more than three (3) months
before an election and are removed within seven (7) days after the election.
The foregoing limitation shall not apply to a successful candidate in any
primary election, provided such signs are removed within fourteen (14) days
following the general election.
   L.   Hospital Directional Signs: Informational or directional signs
designating hospital emergency room entrances or drives.
   M.   Construction Signs: Construction signs not more than one sign per
street frontage not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in size per face.
Signs identifying contractor, electricians, plumbers, architects, engineers and
similar artisans and workmen which are on the site or attached to or on
trailers on the site of construction shall be permitted provided that upon
completion of the project the sign or the trailer to which it is attached must
be removed within one month. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-4: SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS WITH A PERMIT:
The following signs are permitted in any residential district and are subject
to the following regulations:
   A.   Permanent Real Estate Development Signs: Permanent real estate
development signs placed at the entrance to a subdivision or development shall
contain only the name of the subdivision or development and shall meet all the
yard requirements of the district in which it is located. The planning
commission shall determine the appropriate size of the sign based on the design
of the sign and its compatibility with adjacent land uses.
   B.   Temporary Development Signs: Temporary development signs for the
purpose of designating a new building or development, or for promotion of a
subdivision may be permitted for a limited period of time provided that the
sign shall not exceed forty eight (48) square feet in area and shall meet all
the yard requirements of the district in which it is located. The planning
commission shall specify the period of time the sign may remain based on the
size of the development allowing a reasonable time to market the development.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-5: SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS WITH A PERMIT:
Signs are permitted in all nonresidential districts subject to the following
restrictions:
   A.   Wall Signs: Wall signs placed against the exterior walls of buildings
shall not extend more than six inches (6") outside of a building's wall
surface, shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in area for any one premises,
and shall not extend above the roofline of the building. In multitenant
buildings, sign structures and faces shall have a unified design.
   B.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs fastened to, suspended from, or
supported by structures shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area for
any one premises; shall not extend more than six feet (6') into any required
yard; shall not extend more than three feet (3') into any public right of way;
shall not be less than ten feet (10') from all side lot lines; shall not exceed
a height of twenty feet (20') above the mean centerline street grade and shall
not be less than ten feet (10') above the sidewalk nor fifteen feet (15') above
a driveway or an alley.
   C.   Pole Signs: Pole signs shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height
above the mean centerline street grade, shall meet all yard requirements for
the district in which they are located, and shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet on one side nor sixty four (64) square feet on all sides per sign
for any one premises. Every pole sign shall include a street address number or
range of address numbers it identifies. All numbers shall be at least four
inches (4") high.
   D.   Ground Signs:
      1.   Shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height above the mean
centerline street grade and shall meet all yard requirements for the district
in which they are located.
      2.   Shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet on one side nor sixty
four (64) square feet on all sides per sign for any one premises.
      3.   All signs shall be externally illuminated, except for backlit or
internally illuminated individual letters.
      4.   All external light sources shall be totally screened from view so as
not to impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
      5.   For every ground sign, there shall be located on the building an
address number for "911" locations at least four inches (4") high unless
multiple businesses are using the same sign, then the address for "911"
location shall be at least four inches (4") high on the ground sign. (Ord.
2003-4, 8-12-2003)
      6.   The area surrounding the base of the sign shall be kept cleared of
unsightly debris. Landscaping is encouraged in the area immediately surrounding
the base of the sign. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
      7.   Sidewalk signs are restricted to the central business district
between Bluff and Barnett Streets on Mulholland Street and shall be located no
more than thirty inches (30") from the business building. (Ord. 2008-6, 12-9-
2008)
   E.   Marquee, Awning, Or Canopy Signs: Marquee, awning, or canopy signs
affixed flat to the surface of the marquee, awning, or canopy are permitted
providing that the sign does not extend vertically or horizontally beyond the
limits of said marquee, awning, or canopy. A marquee, awning, or canopy may
extend to within one foot (1') of the vertical plane formed by the curb. A name
sign not exceeding two (2) square feet in area located immediately in front of
the entrance to an establishment may be suspended from a canopy provided that
the name sign shall be at least ten feet (10') above the sidewalk.
   F.   Roof Signs: Roof signs are prohibited in the city of Nauvoo. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
   G.   Window Signs: Window signs, except for painted signs and decals, shall
be placed only on the inside of commercial buildings and should not exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the glass area.
   H.   Billboards: Billboards are prohibited in the city of Nauvoo corporate
limits. All billboards in existence at the time of adoption of the zoning
ordinance, being June 12, 2001, are allowed to remain in existence as long as
they are being used on an annual basis and are in good repair. Billboards that
become vacant for three (3) consecutive months are no longer exempt from the
prohibition and must be removed within thirty (30) days of notice to the owner.
   I.   Combination Of Signs: Combinations of any of the above signs shall not
exceed the requirements for an individual sign. The total surface area of all
signs on any premises shall be two (2) square feet of signage per linear foot
of frontage with a maximum of two hundred fifty (250) square feet of total
signage. (Ord. 2003-4, 8-12-2003)
10-5-6: PORTABLE SIGNS:
The city council may permit the temporary use of a portable sign for
advertising purposes in any district provided that the portable sign will not
be located in any public right of way, will not be located closer than ten feet
(10') to an adjacent property, and will not cause a hazard to traffic or
adjoining properties. Portable sign permits shall not be granted for a period
of more than sixty (60) days in any three hundred sixty five (365) day period.
The permit required in section
10-5-10 of this chapter shall be required for portable signs. Banners are
portable signs. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-7: LIGHTING AND COLOR:
Signs shall not resemble, imitate, or approximate the shape, size, form, or
color of railroad or traffic signs, signals, or devices. Signs shall not
obstruct or interfere with the effectiveness of railroad or traffic signs,
signals, or devices. Signs shall not be erected, relocated, or maintained so as
to prevent free ingress to or egress from any door, window, or fire escape; and
no signs shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape. Signs shall not be
placed so as to obstruct or interfere with traffic visibility, nor be lighted
in such a way as to cause glare or impair driver visibility upon public ways.
Signs may be illuminated but nonflashing and shall further comply with the
city's outdoor lighting ordinance. Illuminated signs are permitted only for
businesses located within the city and shall be illuminated only during the
hours the business they advertise is open for business. Signs shall not be
revolving or animated, however, copy on time and temperature devices may be
cyclical. Signs in residential districts may be illuminated only with planning
commission approval. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-8: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Wind Pressure And Dead Load Requirements: All signs and other
advertising structures shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind
pressure of not less than forty (40) pounds per square foot of area; and shall
be constructed to receive dead loads as required in the current building codes
adopted by the city.
   B.   Protection Of The Public: The temporary occupancy of a sidewalk or
street or other public property during construction, removal, repair,
alteration or maintenance of a sign is permitted, provided the space occupied
is roped off, fenced off, or otherwise isolated.
   C.   Maintenance: The owner of any sign shall keep it in good maintenance
and repair which includes restoring, repainting, or replacement of a worn or
damaged legally existing sign to its original condition; and shall maintain the
premises on which the sign is erected in a clean, sanitary, and inoffensive
condition, free and clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish, weeds, and
grass.
   D.   Supporting Members Or Braces: Supporting members or braces of all signs
shall be constructed of galvanized iron, properly treated wood, steel, copper,
brass, or other noncorrosive incombustible material. Every means or device used
for attaching any sign shall extend through the walls of the building should
the building inspector determine that the safe and permanent support of such
sign so requires and shall be securely anchored by wall plates and nuts to the
inside of the walls in accordance with instructions given by the building
inspector. Small flat signs containing less than ten feet (10') of area may be
attached to a building by the use of lag bolts or other means to the
satisfaction of the building inspector.
   E.   Fire Escape, Fire Ladder: No signs or any part thereof or sign anchors,
braces, or guide rods shall be attached, fastened, or anchored to any fire
escape, fire ladder, or standpipe and no such sign or any part of any such sign
or any anchor, brace, or guide rod shall be erected, put up, or maintained so
as to hinder or prevent ingress or egress through such door, doorway, or window
or so as to hinder or prevent the raising or placing of ladders against such
building by the fire department, as necessity therefor may require. (Ord. 2001-
2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-9: EXISTING SIGNS:
   A.   Nonconforming Signs: Signs lawfully existing at the time of the
adoption or amendment of this title may be continued although the size or
location does not conform to this chapter. However, all nonconforming signs
shall be deemed to have exhausted their economic life after ten (10) years from
the time they became a nonconforming use upon the adoption of this title.
Nonconforming signs after this ten (10) year period shall either be made to
conform to the terms of this title, shall be removed by the owner, agent or
person having beneficial use of the property, or be replaced with a new sign of
similar dimensions and style. Nonconforming signs, during the ten (10) year
grace period, shall be kept in good repair, but the cost of maintenance shall
not be considered grounds for their continued use beyond the ten (10) year
period. The building inspector shall, after the ten (10) year grace period,
notify the owner, agent or person having beneficial use of the property, of the
expiration of the grace period. After thirty (30) days, if the sign has not
been made to conform to this chapter or removed, the building inspector shall
initiate appropriate punitive action. Signs which are not repaired, painted or
maintained pursuant to written notification or orders by the building inspector
shall also be subject to punitive action.
Portable signs and/or temporary arrow signs lawfully existing at the time of
the adoption or amendment of this title may be continued although the size and
location does not conform to this title. However, all nonconforming temporary
signs shall be deemed to have exhausted their economic life after five (5)
years from the date they become a nonconforming use upon the adoption of this
title. Within the five (5) year grace period, a permanent replacement sign will
be allowed in the place of the temporary sign. (Ord. 2003-4, 8-12-2003)
   B.   Enlargement: No nonconforming sign shall be enlarged, expanded or
extended to occupy a greater square footage or height than was occupied on the
date of adoption or amendment of this title.
   C.   Relocation: No nonconforming sign shall be moved in whole or in part to
any other portion of the lot, parcel or building not so occupied on the date of
adoption of this title, except that any such sign which is hereafter required
to be moved by a governmental body for the purpose of construction, relocation,
widening or improvement of a street, highway or other public purpose, may be
relocated once and allowed to be maintained and used as before.
   D.   Destruction: Should any nonconforming sign be damaged or destroyed by
any means to an extent of up to fifty percent (50%) of its surface area or
structure, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformance with the
requirements of this title. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-10: SIGN PERMIT:
Application for a sign permit shall be made on forms provided by the building
inspector or city clerk and shall contain or have attached thereto the
following information: (See section
10-5-12, "Sample Form", of this chapter, for informational purposes only.)
   A.   Applicant Information; Location: Name, address, and telephone number of
the applicant. Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which
the sign is to be attached or erected.
   B.   Name Of Party Erecting Sign: Name of person, firm, corporation, or
association erecting the sign.
   C.   Scale Drawing: A scale drawing of such sign indicating the display
surface, the dimensions, the materials to be used, the type of illumination, if
any, and the method of construction and attachment.
   D.   Location And Position Of Sign: A scale drawing indicating the location
and position of such sign in relation to nearby buildings or structures, height
above grade and distance from lot lines.
   E.   Additional Information: Additional information as may be required by
the building inspector or planning commission.
   F.   Sign Permit Applications: Sign permit applications shall be filed with
the building inspector, who shall review the application for its completeness
and accuracy and approve or deny, in writing, the application within thirty
(30) days of receipt from the applicant unless the time is extended by written
agreement with the applicant. For sign types that are not included herein, or
for more complex sign designs, the design shall also be reviewed and approved
by the planning commission. A sign permit shall become null and void, if work
authorized under the permit has not been completed within six (6) months of the
date of issuance.
   G.   Insurance: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
erecting, repairing, maintaining or relocating any sign shall maintain in
effect at all times a policy of liability insurance for sufficient bodily
injury and property damage protection. Proof of insurance shall be presented to
the building inspector before the sign permit is granted.
   H.   Inspection: The applicant shall, upon completion of the installation,
relocation or alteration of the sign, notify the building inspector who will
assure the sign complies with the regulations of this chapter and applicable
provisions of the current building codes adopted by the city. Every sign shall
be inspected and approved by the building inspector within thirty (30) days
after it is erected or altered.
   I.   Appeals: The building inspector may, at any time for a violation of
this chapter, revoke a permit or require changes so the sign conforms with this
chapter. The holder of a revoked permit shall be entitled to an appeal before
the zoning board of appeals. Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any
permit denial or decision by the building inspector relative to the provisions
of these sign regulations may appeal and seek review of such decision of the
zoning board of appeals.
   J.   Fee: The applicant for a sign permit shall pay a fee to the building
inspector as follows:
Temporary signs: Ten dollars ($10.00).
Permanent signs: Thirty dollars ($30.00).
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-11: MEASURING SIGNS:
In calculating the area of a sign to determine whether it meets the
requirements of this chapter, the building inspector shall include the entire
background area of a sign face upon which the sign copy could be placed. See
section
10-1-3, "Definitions", of this title, for sign definitions and attachment C for
graphics on sign types and sign areas. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-5-12: SAMPLE FORM:
**SAMPLE FORM**
CITY OF NAUVOO
SIGN PERMIT APPLICATION
Applicant to complete the following:
Date:                                            
Applicant's Name:                                                      
Address:                                                                  
Telephone Number:                                                    
Project Name:                                                            
Project Address:                                                        
                                                                             
Name of Sign Contractor:                                            
Address:                                                                  
Telephone Number:                                                      
Temporary or Permanent Sign (Circle One)
Required Drawings For Permanent Signs:
A Scale Drawing of such sign indicating the display surface, the dimensions,
the materials to be used, the type of illumination, if any, and the method of
construction and attachment. The Scale Drawing should also indicate the
location and position of such sign in relation to nearby buildings or
structures, height above grade and distance from lot lines.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 6
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Definitions
10-6-3: Shielding Of Outdoor Light Fixtures
10-6-4: Illumination Levels
10-6-5: Filtering
10-6-6: Nonconforming Light Fixtures
10-6-7: Display Lot Lighting
10-6-8: Architectural Lighting
10-6-9: Use Of Mercury Vapor Lighting Fixtures
10-6-10: Height Regulations
10-6-11: Exemptions
10-6-12: Applications
10-6-13: Violations And Penalty
10-6-14: Figures
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the outdoor lighting on public and private property regulations
is to regulate outdoor lighting in order to reduce or prevent light pollution.
This means, to the extent reasonably possible, the reduction or prevention of
glare and light trespass, the conservation of energy, and promotion of safety
and security. These regulations will ensure the aesthetically appropriate
outdoor lighting in keeping with the historic character of the city of Nauvoo.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ACCENT LIGHTING: Any directional lighting which emphasizes a particular object
or draws attention to a particular area.
DISABLING GLARE: Lighting that impairs visibility and creates a potentially
hazardous situation for either pedestrians or motorists.
GLARE: The brightness of a light source that causes eye discomfort.
ILLUMINATING ENGINEERING SOCIETY OF NORTH AMERICA (IES OR IESNA): The
professional society of lighting engineers, including those from manufacturing
companies, and others professionally involved in lighting.
LAMP OR BULB: The light producing source installed in the socket portion of a
luminaire.
LIGHT POLLUTION: General sky glow caused by the scattering of artificial light
in the atmosphere and resulting in decreased ability to see the natural night
sky.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light emitted by a luminaire that shines beyond the property on
which the luminaire is installed. (See section
10-6-14, figures 5 and 6, of this chapter.)
LUMINAIRE OF FIXTURE: A complete lighting unit including the lamps or bulbs,
together with the parts required to distribute the light, to position and
protect the lamps, and to connect the lamps to the power supply.
NUISANCE GLARE: Light that creates an annoyance or aggravation but does not
create a potentially hazardous situation.
OUTDOOR LIGHTING FIXTURES: An outdoor artificial illuminating device, whether
permanent or portable used for illumination or advertisement, including
searchlights, spotlights and floodlights, whether for architectural lighting,
parking lot lighting, landscape lighting, billboards or street lighting.
SHIELDING: No light rays are emitted by a fixture above the horizontal plane
running through the lowest point of the fixture where light is emitted. (See
section
10-6-14, figures 5 and 6, of this chapter.)
SPOTLIGHT OR FLOODLIGHT: Any lamp that incorporates a reflector or a refractor
to concentrate the light output into a directed beam in a particular direction.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-3: SHIELDING OF OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES:
All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be shielded, except incandescent fixtures
150 watts or less and other sources of 70 watts or less. (See section
10-6-14, figures 5 and 6, of this chapter.) (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-4: ILLUMINATION LEVELS:
All outdoor lighting shall not exceed the illumination levels recommended by
the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) given in chart 2
and chart 3 of this section.
CHART 2 – RECOMMENDED ILLUMINATION LEVELS OF THE ILLUMINATING ENGINEERING
SOCIETY OF NORTH AMERICA (IESNA)
PARKING LOTS
 
                        General Parking And Pedestrian                    Vehicle Use Only
Level Of                                                       Uniformity                       Uniformity
Activity Examples       Avg.                    Min.           (Avg./     Avg.   Min.           (Avg./
                                                               Min.)                            Min.)
         Major league                                                     1.8 fc
         athletic                                                         30,000
         events         3.6 fc   60,000 lu 1 0.9 fc 15,000             lu1    0.6 fc 10,000
         Major cultural 750 W MH                lu1                       375 W  lu1
High     or civic       750 W HPS               185 W MH       4:1        MH     125 W MH       3:1
         events         375 W LPS               185 W HPS                 375 W  125 W HPS
         Regional                               90 W LPS               HPS    65 W LPS   
         shopping                                                         375 W
         centers                                                          LPS
         Community
         shopping
         centers
         Cultural,
         civic or
         recreational                                                     0.9 fc
         events                                                           15,000
         Office parking 2.4 fc                  0.6 fc                    lu1    0.3 fc
         Hospital       40,000 lu1              10,000 lu1                185 W  5,000 lu1
Medium   parking        500 W MH                125 W MH       4:1        MH     60 W MH        3:1
         Transportation 500 W HPS               125 W HPS                 185 W  60 W HPS
         parking        250 W LPS               65 W LPS                  HPS    30 W LPS
         Fast food                                                        90 W
         facilities                                                       LPS
         (Airports,
         commuter lots,
         etc.)
         Residential
         complex
         parking
         Neighborhood                                                     0.45
         shopping                                                         fc
         Industrial     0.9 fc                  0.18 fc                   7,500  0.12 fc
         employee       15,000 lu1              3,000 lu1                 lu1    2,000 lu1
Low      parking        185 W MH                35 W MH        4:1        90 W   25 W MH        4:1
         Educational    185 W HPS               35 W HPS                  MH     25 W HPS
         facility       90 W LPS                18 W LPS                  90 W   15 W LPS
         parking                                                          HPS
         Church parking                                                   45 W
                                                                          LPS
 
1.   Assumes light is at a height of 20 feet. If light is at 30 feet the lumens
needs to be doubled to achieve the same fc at the ground.
CHART 3 – LEVEL OF ACTIVITY GUIDELINES
                                                            Level Of Activity
Regional shopping centers containing retail space of 200,000 High
square feet or greater
Sports arenas                                                High
Community shopping centers containing retail space of 4,000  Medium
to 199,000 square feet
Neighborhood shopping containing retail space of less than   Low
4,000 square feet
Fast food facilities                                         Medium
Automotive dealerships                                       Medium
Entertainment theaters                                       Medium
Restaurants                                                  Medium
Hotels/motels                                                Medium
Security lighting                                            Low
 
Other Recommendations:Automotive dealership display lots:35 fc (600,000 lumens
for a single light) 1 7500 W MH.Service stations:Pump island 20 fc (200,000
lumens for a single light)2 2500 W MH.Service area 3 fc (50,000 lumens for a
single light)1 625 W MH.Entrance doorways:Active 5 fc (11,000 lumens)3 135 W
MH, 135 W HPS, 75 W LPS.Inactive 1 fc (2,000 lumens)3 25 W MH, 25 W HPS, 15 W
LPS.
      1.   Assumes light is at a height of 20 feet. If light is at 30 feet the
lumens needs to be doubled to achieve the same fc at the ground.
      2.   Assumes a canopy height of 15 feet.
      3.   Assumes light at a height of 10 feet.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-5: FILTERING:
Metal halide fixtures shall be filtered. "Filtering" means any outdoor light
fixture which has a glass, acrylic, or translucent enclosure. Quartz glass does
not meet this requirement. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-6: NONCONFORMING LIGHT FIXTURES:
   A.   Existing light fixtures which do not conform with sections
10-6-3,
10-6-4, and
10-6-5 of this chapter are allowed, but extinguishing of such lights by eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. is encouraged.
   B.   No outdoor recreational facility, whether public or private, shall be
illuminated after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. except to conclude any
recreational or sporting event or other activity conducted, which is in
progress prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. at a ballpark, school ball field,
outdoor amphitheater, arena or similar facility. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-7: DISPLAY LOT LIGHTING:
Display lot lighting shall be turned off within thirty (30) minutes after
closing the business. Under no circumstances shall the full illumination of the
lot be permitted after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Any lighting used after
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. shall be used as security lighting. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-6-8: ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING:
All architectural lighting shall be of 150 watts or less (incandescent) or 70
watts or less (other types), and be extinguished no later than eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. Lights shall have at least ninety percent (90%) of their light
falling on the illuminated structure. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-9: USE OF MERCURY VAPOR LIGHTING FIXTURES:
No new mercury vapor outdoor lighting fixtures shall be sold or installed after
the adoption of this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-10: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Lighting standards, whether attached to buildings or mounted on poles, shall be
in scale with the height and use of the structure but shall not exceed thirty
feet (30') in height. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-11: EXEMPTIONS:
The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Outdoor lighting fixtures existing and legally installed prior to the
effective date hereof; however, any replacement of said lighting fixtures must
comply with this chapter as set forth above.
   B.   Traffic control signals and devices.
   C.   Streetlights installed prior to the effective date hereof.
   D.   Temporary emergency lighting (i.e., fire, police, repair workers).
   E.   Moving vehicle lights.
   F.   Navigation lights (i.e., airports, heliports, radio/television towers).
   G.   Lighted signs that conform with the city's sign ordinance 1 .
   H.   Seasonal decorations with individual lights in place no longer than
sixty (60) days.
   I.   Other special situations approved by the city for temporary or periodic
events (i.e., rodeos, revivals, fairs, fiestas, carnivals, nighttime
construction).
   J.   Covered porch lighting on single-family or multi-family homes provided
that each outdoor light fixture does not exceed 150 watts (2,220 lumens
output).
   K.   Security lights of any wattage that are controlled by a motion sensor
switch and which do not remain on longer than ten (10) to twelve (12) minutes
after activation.
   L.   Historical areas as designated by proper authority are exempt from the
requirements of this chapter. Use of the minimum illumination necessary to
maintain public safety is encouraged.
   M.   Outdoor light fixtures operated by the city of Nauvoo and Nauvoo park
district are exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Voluntary compliance
with the intent and provisions of this chapter is encouraged. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-
12-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
10-6-12: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Any person applying for a building, electrical or sign permit to
install outdoor lighting fixtures shall as a part of said application submit
evidence that the proposed work will comply with this chapter.
   B.   The application shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, other devices.
      2.   Descriptions of the illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports
and other devices. This description may include, but is not limited to,
manufacturer's catalog cuts, and drawings including sections where required.
   C.   The above required plans and descriptions shall be sufficiently
complete to enable the zoning administrator to readily determine whether
compliance with the requirements of this chapter will be secured. If such plans
and descriptions cannot enable this ready determination, by reason of the
nature or configuration of the devices, fixtures or lamps proposed, the
applicant shall submit evidence of compliance by certified test reports as
performed by a recognized testing lab. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-6-13: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
Any person, firm, entity or corporation violating the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay a forfeiture of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each day the violation continues after being issued a
citation. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
 
10-6-14: FIGURES:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1416.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1418.gif]
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 6A
WIND POWERED GENERATORS
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Applicability
10-6A-3: Construction
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for and regulate the location and
safe construction of wind powered generators in the city of Nauvoo. This will
ensure the conservation of energy and promotion of safety and security. (Ord.
2007-4, 5-31-2007)
10-6A-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter will be applicable to all existing zoning areas and will apply to
all real estate under the jurisdiction of the city of Nauvoo and the city's
zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2007-4, 5-31-2007)
10-6A-3: CONSTRUCTION:
All wind powered generators shall be constructed and operated under the
following conditions:
   A.   All wind powered generators shall be constructed to the acceptable
industry standards.
   B.   No wind powered generators shall exceed a maximum height of forty five
feet (45') including the highest point that the blade can reach and blades
shall reach no lower than twenty five feet (25') from the highest point of
ground level.
   C.   All setbacks must be met for each zoning area. This shall include any
and all components used in constructing the tower and any stabilizing wires or
supports.
   D.   All towers and supports shall be secured from any and all unauthorized
persons to prevent playing on or climbing towers or supports.
   E.   A building permit shall be required and shall be reviewed by the city
council even if the proposed construction cost is less than the amount required
to be approved by the city council.
   F.   The city council may make adjustments in each building permit as it
deems necessary for the safety and security of the citizens of Nauvoo and the
aesthetic and historical features of the area. The city council shall have the
absolute right to deny a building permit for a wind powered generator if the
city council believes it is in the best interest of the city and the area where
the proposed wind generator is to be constructed. (Ord. 2007-4, 5-31-2007)
CHAPTER 7
NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND LOTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Statement Of Intent
10-7-2: Existing Nonconforming Uses
10-7-3: Abolishment Or Replacement
10-7-4: Existing Nonconforming Structures
10-7-5: Changes And Substitutions
10-7-6: Required Repairs On Nonconforming Structures
10-7-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
Within the various districts established by this title or amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist structures and uses of land and structures which
were lawful prior to the adoption of this title but which would be prohibited,
regulated or restricted under the provisions of this chapter. It is the intent
of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are
removed but not to encourage their survival. Such uses are declared by this
chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-7-2: EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES:
The lawful nonconforming use of a structure or land existing at the time of the
adoption or amendment of this title may be continued although the use does not
conform with the provisions of this chapter; however:
   A.   Only that portion of the land in actual use may be so continued and the
structure may not be extended, enlarged, reconstructed, substituted, moved, or
structurally altered except when required to do so by law or order or so as to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Changes of use may be permitted by the zoning board of appeals if such
changes will reduce the incompatibility of the nonconforming use with the
neighboring uses. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-7-3: ABOLISHMENT OR REPLACEMENT:
If such nonconforming use is discontinued or terminated for a period of twelve
(12) months, any future use of the structure or land, shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter. When a nonconforming use or structure is damaged by
fire, explosion, flood, the public enemy or other calamity to the extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, it shall not be
restored except so as to comply with the use provisions of this chapter. Where
a nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land in combination,
removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming
status of the land. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-7-4: EXISTING NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
The lawful nonconforming structure existing at the time of the adoption or
amendment of this title may be continued although its size or location does not
conform with the lot width, lot area, yard, height, parking and loading, and
access provisions of this title; however, it shall not be extended, enlarged,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except when required to do so by
law or order or so as to comply with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2001-
2, 6-12-2001)
10-7-5: CHANGES AND SUBSTITUTIONS:
Once a nonconforming use or structure has been changed to conform, it shall not
revert back to a nonconforming use or structure. Once the zoning board of
appeals has permitted the substitution of a more restrictive nonconforming use
for an existing nonconforming use, the substituted use shall lose its status as
a legal nonconforming use and become subject to all the conditions required by
the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-7-6: REQUIRED REPAIRS ON NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the restoring to a safe
condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official
charged with protecting the public safety, upon the order of such official.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 8
ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE A. ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Duties
10-8A-1: DUTIES:
   A.   There is hereby created the position of zoning administrator who shall
be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city council. The zoning
administrator shall administer and enforce the provisions of this title and
shall have the following powers and duties in connection therewith:
      1.   The zoning administrator shall issue all permits and certificates
required by this title.
      2.   If the zoning administrator should find that any of the provisions
of this title are being violated, he/she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. The zoning administrator shall
order the discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings or structures;
the removal of illegal buildings or structures or of additions, alterations or
structural changes thereto; the discontinuance of any illegal work being done;
or shall take any other action authorized by this title to ensure compliance
with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
   B.   The city council may delegate the powers and duties of the office of
zoning administrator to any employee of the city or may combine the powers and
duties of this office with any other position. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
ARTICLE B.  PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Purpose
10-8B-2: Membership
10-8B-3: Term Of Office
10-8B-4: Procedure
10-8B-5: Powers And Duties
10-8B-6: Land Subdivision, Resubdivision And Official Map
10-8B-7: Improvements
10-8B-8: Expenditures
10-8B-1: PURPOSE:
In order that adequate provision may be made for the preparation and
enforcement of zoning regulations and a comprehensive plan for the guidance,
direction, and control of the growth and development or redevelopment of the
city and contiguous territory not more than one mile beyond the corporate
limits and not included in any municipality, a planning commission is hereby
created under authority of state statute. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-8B-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The planning commission shall consist of five (5) members, citizens of the city
all of whom shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city
council. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-8B-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the planning commission shall serve for a period of three (3)
years. Commencing with the first city council meeting in May, two (2) members
of the planning commission shall be appointed for a term of one year, two (2)
members of the planning commission shall be appointed for a term of two (2)
years, and one member of the planning commission shall be appointed for a term
of three (3) years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointments for expired terms
only. All of the members of the commission shall serve without compensation,
except that if the city council deems it advisable, they may receive such
compensation as may be fixed from time to time by the city council and provided
for in the appropriation ordinance. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-8B-4: PROCEDURE:
Immediately following their appointment, the members of the planning commission
shall meet, organize, elect such officers as they may deem necessary, and adopt
and later change or alter rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with city ordinances and state laws. The commission shall keep
written records of its proceedings which shall be open at all times to public
inspection. The commission shall also file an annual report with the mayor and
city council, setting forth its transactions and recommendations. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-8B-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the city council a comprehensive plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous
unincorporated territory not more than one mile beyond the corporate limits of
the city and not included in any other municipality. Such plan may be adopted
in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts, each of which, when
adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the city
of Nauvoo. Such plan shall be advisory except as to such part thereof as has
been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the city council. All
requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the county
recorder of deeds and filing of said plan and ordinances with the municipal
clerk shall be complied with as provided by law.
To provide for the health, safety, comfort, and convenience of the inhabitants
of the city and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish
reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of
unimproved lands and of areas subject to resubdivisions of unimproved lands and
of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as herein
defined and shall establish reasonable requirements governing location, width,
course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and
sewage collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall become
regulatory only when adopted by ordinance.
   B.   To recommend to the city council, from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the city council, from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements to the comprehensive plan.
   D.   To give aid to the official of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the comprehensive plan, or parts
thereof, to further the making of such improvements and generally to promote
the realization of the comprehensive plan.
   E.   To prepare and recommend zoning regulations to the city council to
promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Nauvoo and
to encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
   F.   To review rezoning petitions, special use permits, sign permits and
amendments to the zoning regulations and subdivision regulations and make
recommendations to the city council, from time to time.
   G.   To designate lands suitable for annexation to the municipality and
recommend zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   H.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public understanding.
   I.   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   J.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of state statute, as may be conferred by the city council. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-8B-6: LAND SUBDIVISION, RESUBDIVISION AND OFFICIAL MAP:
At any time before or after the formal adoption of the comprehensive plan by
the corporate authorities, an official map may be designated by ordinance,
which map may consist of the whole area included within the comprehensive plan,
or one or more separate geographical or functional parts, and may include all
or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area within one mile from the
corporate limits of the city. All requirements for public hearing, filing of
notice of adoption with the county recorder of deeds, and filing of said plan
and ordinances, including the official map, with the city clerk shall be
complied with as provided for by law. No map or plat of any subdivision or
resubdivision presented for record affecting land within the corporate limits
of the city or within contiguous territory which is not more than one mile
beyond the corporate limits shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon
provides for standards of design, and standards governing streets, alleys,
public ways, ways for public service facilities, streetlights, public grounds,
size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm and flood water runoff,
channels, basins, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage
collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable requirements of the
ordinances, including the official map. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-8B-7: IMPROVEMENTS:
The city clerk shall furnish the planning data relative to public improvements
of any nature. The planning commission may report in relation thereto if it
deems a report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the city
council. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-8B-8: EXPENDITURES:
The commission may, at the direction of the city council, employ a paid
secretary or staff, or both, whose salary, wages and other necessary expenses
shall be provided for by the city council from public funds. If said planning
commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice or services, it
may be done upon authority from the city council and appropriations by the city
council therefor. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
ARTICLE C.  ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-8C-1: Creation, Appointment And Organization
10-8C-2: Powers And Duties
10-8C-3: Procedure
10-8C-1: CREATION, APPOINTMENT AND ORGANIZATION:
   A.   A zoning board of appeals shall be established. The word "board", when
used in this section, shall be construed to mean the zoning board of appeals.
      1.   The board shall consist of five (5) members, all of whom shall be
appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city council, and no person
shall be on the zoning board of appeals if he or she is the mayor, an alderman,
a person appointed to any city position, or any other elected official of the
city of Nauvoo.
      2.   Each member of the zoning board of appeals shall serve for a period
of three (3) years. Membership terms are staggered. If a vacancy should occur,
the vacant position shall be filled by appointment, and the replacement shall
serve only until the expiration of the replaced member's term.
      3.   The zoning administrator shall serve as an ex officio, nonvoting,
permanent member of the board. If the board meets more than six (6) times in
one fiscal year, then the members shall be compensated for each meeting
thereafter at the same rate that is paid to city council members for attendance
at regular meetings. (Ord. 2009-7, 3-9-2010)
   B.   The board shall elect its own chairman and vice chairman who shall
serve for one year. The board shall adopt from time to time such rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of
this chapter and to govern the conduct of its public hearings.
   C.   Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman or any
two (2) members, or at such other times as the board may determine. Three (3)
members of the board shall constitute a quorum and a majority vote of the
members present shall determine all questions presented to the board except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. The chairman shall be entitled to vote upon
all questions presented to the board. Such chairman, or in his absence the
acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examination, determinations and other official actions, all of which
shall be immediately filed in the office of the board and shall be a public
record. Official action and minutes of the proceedings shall be taken down by a
reporter employed by the board for this purpose. The board may select or
appoint such officers as it deems necessary. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-8C-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board shall hear applications for and make recommendations to the city
council concerning the following:
   A.   Errors: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning
administrator in the enforcement of this title.
   B.   Variations: When, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or
shape of a specific piece of property at the time of adoption of this title, or
by reason of exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary or
exceptional situation or condition of a specific piece of property, which
condition is not generally prevalent in the area, the strict application of the
area regulations would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties of exceptional and undue hardship upon the owner of such property,
the board shall be empowered to authorize, upon application for an appeal in
regard to such property, a variation from such district application so as to
relieve such difficulty or hardship.
   C.   Exceptions: Upon application for appeal, the board shall be empowered
to make recommendations to the city council on the following exceptions:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot of record in single ownership.
      2.   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been damaged by explosion, fire, act of God or the public enemy to the extent
of more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost when the board finds
some compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming
use, but in no case shall such permit be issued if its primary function is to
continue a monopoly.
      3.   To interpret the provisions of this title where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map fixing
the several districts.
      4.   To vary parking regulations whenever the character or use of the
building is such as to make unnecessary the full provisions of parking
facilities or when such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon
the use of the lot, as contrasted with merely granting an advantage or a
convenience.
      5.   Variation of the yard, fence, sign, or accessory structure size
regulations where there is an exceptional or unusual physical condition of a
lot, which condition, when related to the yard, fence, sign, or accessory
structure size regulations of this title, would prevent a reasonable or
sensible arrangement of buildings, fences or signs on the lot.
   D.   Changes Granted Or Denied: In exercising the above powers, the board
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from and make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made and to that end shall have all
the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. In considering all
appeals or applications for variations or exceptions, the board shall before
making any finding in a specific case first determine that the proposed change
will not constitute a change, including a variation in use, in the district map
and will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property,
or increase congestion in public streets or increase the danger of fire or
materially diminish or impair established property values within the
surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare of the city. Every change granted or denied by the
board shall be accompanied by a written finding of fact based on sworn
testimony and evidence, specifying the reason for granting or denying the
variation. The decision of the board shall be made a part of any building
permit in which variation is allowed.
   E.   Voting: The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
building inspector, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass or to effect any variations in this title.
   F.   Tie Vote: In the event that the board reaches a tie in the voting
process, the appeal item shall be forwarded to the city council for final
approval or disapproval. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-8C-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeals: Appeals to the board of any matter over which the board is
specifically granted jurisdiction may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by
an officer, department, any board or bureau of the city affected by any
decision of the zoning administrator. Such appeal shall be taken within sixty
(60) days of such decision by filing with the zoning administrator and with the
board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The zoning
administrator shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from is taken. The data to be
submitted for zoning appeals is included on an appeals application form
available from the zoning administrator or city clerk. See a sample form in
this section for informational purposes only.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the zoning administrator certifies to the
board after the notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by proper legal action.
   C.   Hearing: Upon an appeal, request for a variation or exception, the
board shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing. Upon an appeal from any
decision of the zoning administrator, request for variation or exception, the
board shall give not less than fifteen (15) days' public notice of a hearing
thereon in a newspaper of general circulation. The notice shall contain the
particular location of the property affected by the decision appealed from or
the variation or exception requested, as well as a brief statement of the
nature of the appeal or of what the proposed variation or exception consists.
In addition, the city clerk will post a notice of the public hearing in three
(3) locations.
   D.   Notice To Property Owners: If a request for variation or exception is
sought, the applicant shall furnish the city clerk a complete list containing
the names and last known addresses of the property owners required to be served
at the time the appeal application is filed plus a written notice. The city
clerk will be responsible for mailing the appeal application to the surrounding
property owners by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, not
less than fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days prior to the
hearing. One owner of each property within two hundred fifty feet (250') in
each direction of the lot line of the subject property shall be notified unless
waived. Property ownership shall be based on the tax records of Hancock County
and/or how the property is recorded with the recorder of deeds for Hancock
County. The number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys, and
other public ways shall be excluded in computing the two hundred fifty foot
(250') requirement. Said notice shall contain the address of the subject
property, the name and address of the applicant and property owner, a brief
statement of the nature of the appeal, request for variation or exception, and
the date and location of the public hearing relative to the application. If,
after a bona fide effort to determine such address by the applicant, the owner
of the property on which notice is served cannot be found at his or its last
known address, or the mailed notice is returned because the owner cannot be
found at the last known address, the notice requirements of these provisions
shall be deemed satisfied. Failure to comply with the provisions of this
subsection shall render the application invalid. Upon the hearing, any party
may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
APPEALS APPLICATION  (**SAMPLE FORM**)
TO:   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
   CITY HALL
   NAUVOO, ILLINOIS
   On                 , 20  , the undersigned applied to the Zoning
Administrator/Building Inspector of the City of Nauvoo for a permit to        
                 on property known as    
                                                                               
                                 
Legally described as:    
                                                                               
                                 
P.I.N.         
This permit was refused by the Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector because
   
I (we) hereby appeal this case to the Zoning Board of Appeals and ask that a
variance be granted to allow    
                                                                               
                                 
   (Additional grounds can be given on the back of this application)
                                                               
                              (Signed)
Hearing date:                    
                                                               
                              (Address)
Attached herewith is a list of informational items that can accompany this
petition for clarification purposes.
   
(To be completed by Board Chairman)
Members present:                                                              
                                                   
                                                                               
                                 
   **SAMPLE FORM**
APPEALS APPLICATION
Action taken:                                                                  
                                               
                                                                               
                                 
Below is a list of items that can accompany this petition.
1.   Sketch with dimensions of the yard, the existing house, garage, fence,
etc. and the proposed improvement shown. Neighboring properties that are
affected can also be shown. If this information is shown on grid paper,
indicate how many feet each box represents.
2.   Photographs of the yard, house, garage, etc.
3.   Proposed site plan drawn to scale.
4.   Any other pertinent information relevant to the project.
Hearing date:                                                       
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 9
SITE PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
10-9-1: Statement Of Intent
10-9-2: Principles
10-9-3: Administration
10-9-4: Review And Findings
10-9-5: Site Plan Review Application And Checklist
10-9-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
For the purpose of promoting compatible development, stability of property
values, and to prevent impairment or depreciation of property values, no person
shall commence any use or erect any structure, with the exception of single-
family, and agricultural buildings and structures, without first obtaining the
approval of the planning commission and city council of detailed site plans as
set forth in this section. Site plans are required if more than one 2-family
dwelling unit is placed on property owned by the same person or if located in a
subdivision or planned unit development.
The planning commission and city council shall review the site, existing and
proposed structures, setbacks, neighboring uses, utilization of landscaping and
open space, parking areas, driveway locations, loading and unloading in the
case of commercial and industrial uses, highway access, traffic generation and
circulation, drainage, and sewerage and water systems. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
All approved site plan reviews shall be valid for a time period of one year
starting with the date the site plan review is approved by the Nauvoo city
council to the time construction is begun. If construction has not commenced
within a year from the date the site plan review is approved by the city
council, then the site plan review is considered expired and a new site plan
review process must be commenced. (Ord. 2005-17, 5-9-2006)
10-9-2: PRINCIPLES:
To implement and define criteria for the purposes set forth in section
10-9-1 of this chapter, the following principles are established:
   A.   No building or use shall be permitted that would have a negative impact
on the maintenance of safe and healthful conditions in the city.
   B.   Buildings and uses shall maintain existing topography, drainage
patterns, and vegetative cover insofar as is practical.
   C.   Buildings and uses shall provide for safe traffic circulation and safe
driveway locations.
   D.   Buildings and uses shall provide adequate parking and loading areas.
   E.   Buildings and uses shall be provided with adequate public services.
   F.   Buildings and uses shall make appropriate use of open spaces and
provide appropriate landscaping and planting screens as required. (Ord. 2001-2,
6-12-2001)
10-9-3: ADMINISTRATION:
Site plan data shall be submitted to the zoning administrator who shall
transmit all applications and their accompanying plans to the planning
commission for their review. The purpose of the site plan is to show all
information needed to enable the zoning administrator, planning commission,
building inspector, city engineer and the city council to determine if the
proposed development meets the requirements of this chapter. The submittal
procedure is as follows:
   A.   Six (6) copies of the site plan with all applicable information from
the checklist in section
10-9-5 of this chapter shown on the plan shall be submitted one week prior to
the planning commission meeting.
   B.   Site plan review submittals shall follow the application fee schedule
in chapter 12 of this title.
   C.   If revisions are required, three (3) copies of the plan shall be
submitted to the planning commission for final review.
   D.   Upon approval of the site plan, one approved plan will be kept on file
in city hall, one plan will be on file in the building inspection section for
field review and the final copy of the approval plan will be returned to the
developer/owner for use by the contractor in the construction process. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
   E.   Basic construction hours for commercial projects shall be from seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. The hours may vary depending
on what type of construction work has been applied for. The planning commission
shall set the hours during the site plan review process with input from the
zoning administrator and the building inspector. The zoning administrator and
the building inspector shall enforce the times set and have the power to revoke
the building permit for noncompliance. (Ord. 2007-15, 6-10-2008)
The plan data to be submitted with all site plan review applications shall
include the information on the site plan review application and checklist
available from the zoning administrator or city clerk. A sample form is at
section
10-9-5 of this chapter for informational purposes only. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-
2001)
10-9-4: REVIEW AND FINDINGS:
The planning commission shall review the referred plans at the first planning
commission meeting following their submittal, but not more than thirty (30)
days following their submittal. The planning commission shall render a decision
no later than the following regular planning commission meeting. The planning
commission shall not approve any plans unless they find, after reviewing the
application, that the structure or use, as planned, will not violate the intent
and purpose of this chapter. The planning commission will approve said plans
only after determining the proposed building or buildings will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, or substantially
increase the danger of fire, or traffic congestion, or otherwise endanger the
public health or safety. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-9-5: SITE PLAN REVIEW APPLICATION AND CHECKLIST:
   **SAMPLE FORM**
   CITY OF NAUVOO
   SITE PLAN REVIEW APPLICATION
Applicant to complete the following:
Date:                                  
Project Name:                                                                  
                                               
Applicant's Name:                                                              
                                                   
Address:                                                                      
                                           
Telephone Number:                                                              
                               
Project Name:                                                                  
                                               
General Location of Property to be Reviewed:
                                                                               
                                 
Name of Designer:                                                              
                                                   
Address:                                                                      
                                           
Telephone Number:                                                              
                                                   
Legal Owner of Property:                                                      
                                                           
Address:                                                                      
                       
Telephone Number:                                                              
                                                   
Description of Proposed Development (specify proposed use of each structure):
   
                                                                               
                                 
                                                                               
                                 
   **SAMPLE FORM**
   CITY OF NAUVOO
   SITE PLAN REVIEW CHECKLIST
Project Name:                                                                  
                                               
Applicant Name:                                                                
                                                 
Mark an "X" where completed, leave blank when not completed, mark n/a when not
applicable.
Information for the Plan
              Site plan drawn to a recognized engineering scale.
              Name of project noted.
              Owner's and/or developer's name and address noted.
              Designer's name and address noted.
              Date of plan submittal.
              Scale of drawing noted on plan and north arrow.
              The type, size, and location of all structures with all building
dimensions shown.
              Indicate height of building(s).
              Existing and proposed street names indicated.
              Indicate existing and proposed public rights-of-way and widths.
              Locate existing and general location of proposed sanitarysewers,
septic systems, storm sewers, and water mains.
              Locate any proposed storm water management facilities, including
detention/retention areas.
              Locate existing trees.
              The location and description of all proposed landscaping, berms,
fencing and walls.
              Note location of pedestrian sidewalks and walkways.
              The zoning district of the parcel and all abutting parcels.
              Existing and proposed lot lines, & dimensioned building setbacks.
              For parcels of more than one acre: existing and proposed
topography with a maximum contour interval of two feet on the site and beyond
the site for a distance of 100 feet in all directions.
              Dimensioned parking spaces and calculations, drives and types of
surfacing.
              Exterior light locations, type of light and height.
              Location of trash receptacle pad and description of screening
method.
              Location of signs, including height and size; provide description
of lighting method and materials.
              Any other pertinent features not mentioned above.
Additional Requirements for RMF, RMH & TTP Districts
              Designation of units by type and number of units in each
building.
              Location of carports, garages or parking area.
              Locations and descriptions of community buildings, recreational
facilities and outdoor recreational spaces.
Additional Requirements for C and I Districts
              Loading and Unloading areas.
              Gross and Net (useable) floor area in square feet.
              Number of employees, customers, clients or patients in park
usage.
Additional Requirements for CBD & OM Districts
              Description of exterior design or exterior elevations.
              Description of restoration scope of work.
Additional Requirements for PUD Districts
              The location of natural resource features to be preserved (i.e. –
woodlands, meadows, lakes, etc.).
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Authorization
10-10-2: Procedure
10-10-3: Issuance
10-10-4: Application
10-10-1: AUTHORIZATION:
The uses listed below are hereby classified as special uses and upon issuance
of a special use permit by the planning commission and city council after a
public hearing, such uses may be allowed in any zoning district where they are
prohibited by this chapter. The planning commission and city council shall
consider the health, safety, welfare and continued aesthetic beauty of the
community when approving, approving with conditions, or denying a special use
permit.
Any public buildings erected and used by any department of the city, township,
county, state or federal government.
Cellular tower or antenna (commercial uses).
Community buildings.
Daycare centers, preschools and group homes, wherever the same is allowed as a
permitted use, subject to the granting of a special use permit. In addition to
all other requirements for obtaining a special use permit, the following
criteria must be met:
   A.   All applicable state laws have been complied with.
   B.   The applicable local laws have been complied with.
   C.   The facility shall be harmonious with the surrounding properties.
   D.   The proposed facility shall have suitable parking and traffic flow
areas for the safe pick up and delivery of children.
   E.   No playground equipment shall be permitted in the front or side yards.
   F.   Fenced play areas shall be enclosed or protected, well drained, free
from hazards, and shall be readily accessible to the center.
Electrical and natural gas substations and regulating facilities.
Hospitals, nonprofit fraternal institutions, provided that they are used solely
for fraternal purposes, and institutions of an educational, religious,
philanthropic character, and any nonprofit museums.
Items erected to a height that exceeds the regulations listed within this
title. These items may include chimneys, church steeples, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery
lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers, spires, wireless towers, grain
elevators or necessary mechanical appurtenances.
Mortuary or funeral home.
Nursing home or assisted living.
Public or private cemeteries, including mausoleums.
Public park, playground or outdoor recreational facility.
Water and wastewater treatment facilities. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord.
2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-10-2: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Request For Special Use Permit: Upon receiving a request for a special
use permit, the zoning administrator shall review the proposal and a public
hearing date shall be set before the planning commission. Upon a request for a
special use permit, the planning commission shall give not less than fifteen
(15) days' public notice of a hearing thereon in a newspaper of general
circulation. The notice shall contain the particular location of the property
affected by the special use permit requested, as well as a brief statement of
the nature of special use permit or what the special use permit consists of. In
addition, the City Clerk will post a notice of the public hearing in three (3)
locations.
   B.   Notice To Property Owners: If a request for a special use permit is
sought, the applicant shall furnish the City Clerk a complete list containing
the names and last known addresses of the property owners required to be served
at the time the application is filed plus a written notice. The City Clerk will
be responsible for mailing the special use permit application to the
surrounding property owners by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, not less than fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days
prior to the hearing. One (1) owner of each property within two hundred fifty
feet (250') in each direction of the lot line of the subject property shall be
notified unless waived. Property ownership shall be based on the tax records of
Hancock County and/or how the property is recorded with the Recorder of Deeds
for Hancock County. The number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets,
alleys, and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the two hundred
fifty foot (250') requirement. Said notice shall contain the address of the
subject property, the name and address of the applicant and property owner, a
brief statement of the nature of the special use permit, and the date and
location of the public hearing relative to the application. If, after a bona
fide effort to determine such address by the applicant, the owner of the
property on which notice is served cannot be found at his or its last known
address, or the mailed notice is returned because the owner cannot be found at
the last known address, the notice requirements of these provisions shall be
deemed satisfied. Failure to comply with the provisions of this subsection
shall render the application invalid. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in
person or by agent or by attorney. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
   C.   Fees: The party filing for a special use permit to the Planning
Commission shall pay a fee per the application fee schedule in chapter 12 of
this title at the time of filing. An additional fee shall be paid for the costs
of publication for the public hearing to be held on the special use permit. For
applications that involve more than three (3) property owners surrounding the
subject property, the applicant shall pay the current postal rate for each
letter the City Clerk sends by registered or certified mail. The letters will
not be sent out until the fees are paid. The fees shall be paid to the City
Clerk, who shall give a receipt therefor; and a copy of the receipt shall be
presented to the Planning Commission with the special use permit, as evidence
that the fees required in the case have been paid. The fees thus collected by
the City Clerk shall be paid to the credit of the General Fund of the City.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2012-3, 6-12-2012)
10-10-3: ISSUANCE:
Before issuance of any special use permit for any of the above buildings or
uses, the Planning Commission shall review the conformity of the proposal with
the standards of the land use plan, and with recognized principles of
engineering design, land use planning and landscape architecture. The Planning
Commission may approve or disapprove the special use permit as submitted or,
before approval, may require that the applicant modify, alter, adjust or amend
the proposal as the Planning Commission deems necessary to the end that it
preserve the intent and purpose of this title to promote public health, safety
and the general welfare. After receiving the recommendations and report of the
Planning Commission, the City Council may pass the proposed special use permit
with or without change, may reject it, may resubmit it to the Planning
Commission for further consideration, or take other appropriate action. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 4-13-2004)
10-10-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   Applications for a special use permit, under the terms of this section,
shall be accompanied by evidence concerning the feasibility of the proposed
request and its effect on surrounding property and shall include a detailed
site plan defining the areas to be developed for buildings, the areas to be
developed for parking, the locations of sidewalks and driveways and the points
of ingress and egress, including access streets where required, the location
and height of buildings, the location and type of buffers, the type of lighting
and the location, size and number of signs.
   B.   In the event a special use permit is granted under the terms of this
section, any change thereafter in the approved use or site plan shall be
resubmitted and considered in the same manner as the original proposal. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 11
CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Authority
10-11-2: Initiation
10-11-3: Application For Amendment
10-11-4: Notice To Property Owners
10-11-5: Review By Planning Commission
10-11-6: Continuation Of Hearing
10-11-7: Action By City Council
10-11-8: Amendment Of Application
10-11-9: Effect Of Denial Of Zoning Change
10-11-1: AUTHORITY:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practice requires, the city council may, by ordinance, change the zoning
district boundaries or amend, change, or supplement the zoning regulations
established by this title or amendments thereto. Such change or amendment shall
first be subject to the review and recommendation of the planning commission.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-11-2: INITIATION:
A change or amendment may be initiated by the city council, zoning board of
appeals, planning commission or by a petition of one or more of the owners or
lessees of property within the area proposed to be changed. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-
2001)
10-11-3: APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT:
Whenever any person, firm or corporation desires that any amendment or change
be made in this zoning ordinance, including the text and/or map, as to any
property covered by this title, such party shall file an application for zoning
amendment or change with the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator
shall review the application requesting such amendment or change and determine
that the application clearly describes the property and the boundaries to which
the amendment or change is desired, lists the reasons justifying the
application and specifies the proposed use. Upon a determination by the zoning
administrator that the application satisfactorily complies with the statutory
requirements, the zoning administrator shall conduct an informal meeting with
both the party seeking the zoning amendment or change and the landowners within
the affected tract or the landowners within two hundred fifty feet (250') of
the affected property. The purpose of such meeting shall be informational in
nature. The party requesting the zoning amendment or change shall present the
detailed plans of the project which have prompted such application. The
interested parties in attendance may make inquiry or express any concerns as to
the same. It shall be the responsibility of the zoning administrator to report
the contents of this meeting to the planning commission. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-
2001)
10-11-4: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Upon receiving a request for a change or amendment, the zoning
administrator shall review the proposal and a public hearing date shall be set
before the planning commission. Upon a request for a change or amendment, the
planning commission shall give not less than fifteen (15) days' public notice
of a hearing thereon in a newspaper of general circulation. The notice shall
contain the particular location of the property affected by the change or
amendment requested, as well as a brief statement of the nature of the change
or amendment or what the change or amendment permit consists of. In addition,
the city clerk will post a notice of the public hearing in three (3) locations.
   B.   If a request for change or amendment is sought, the applicant shall
furnish the city clerk a complete list containing the names and last known
addresses of the property owners required to be served at the time the change
or amendment application is filed plus a written notice. The city clerk will be
responsible for mailing the amendment application to the surrounding property
owners by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, not less than
fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing. One
owner of each property within two hundred fifty feet (250') in each direction
of the lot line of the subject property shall be notified unless waived.
Property ownership shall be based on the tax records of Hancock County and/or
how the property is recorded with the recorder of deeds for Hancock County. The
number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys, and other public
ways shall be excluded in computing the two hundred fifty foot (250')
requirement. Said notice shall contain the address of the subject property, the
name and address of the applicant and property owner, a brief statement of the
nature of the amendment, and the date and location of the public hearing
relative to the application. If, after a bona fide effort to determine such
address by the applicant, the owner of the property on which notice is served
cannot be found at his or its last known address, or the mailed notice is
returned because the owner cannot be found at the last known address, the
notice requirements of these provisions shall be deemed satisfied. Failure to
comply with the provisions of this subsection shall render the application
invalid. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
   C.   Except in those cases where an amendment or change is sought by the
Mayor and City Council, Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals, the
party filing a change or amendment to the Planning Commission shall pay a fee
per the application fee schedule in chapter 12 of this title at the time of
filing. An additional fee shall be paid for the costs of publication for the
public hearing to be held on the change or amendment. For applications that
involve more than three (3) property owners surrounding the subject property,
the applicant shall pay the current postal rate for each letter the City Clerk
sends by registered or certified mail. The letters will not be sent out until
the fees are paid. The fees shall be paid to the City Clerk, who shall give a
receipt therefor; and a copy of the receipt shall be presented to the Planning
Commission with the change or amendment, as evidence that the fees required in
the case have been paid. The fees thus collected by the City Clerk shall be
paid to the credit of the General Fund of the City. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001;
amd. Ord. 2012-3, 6-12-2012)
10-11-5: REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
The proposed amendment or change shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission shall thereafter file a report with the City Council.
The Planning Commission shall have sixty (60) days following the filing of the
application or proposed amendment or change to submit its report. If a report
is not filed with the City Council within sixty (60) days, it may be assumed by
the City Council that the Planning Commission approved the application. The
applicant for any change may, however, agree to a longer time period than set
forth herein. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-11-6: CONTINUATION OF HEARING:
After notice of a scheduled hearing has been published or served on adjoining
property owners, as provided herein, such hearing may be continued or withdrawn
only upon approval of the Planning Commission. A request by an applicant for
continuation or withdrawal may only be granted for good cause. Any such request
must be made in person to the Planning Commission or in writing setting forth
the reasons for the request. Notwithstanding any such request, the Planning
Commission shall have the discretion to: grant the request, deny the request
and hold any required public hearing and make a recommendation to the City
Council regarding the subject application; or grant a continuance and defer
taking any final action, but proceed with any required public hearing, or take
other appropriate action. In addition, and notwithstanding the foregoing, if an
applicant (who has otherwise failed to previously request a continuation or
withdrawal of an application) fails to appear at the scheduled hearing, the
application may be denied by the Planning Commission with or without any
required public hearing and such denial reported to the City Council. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-11-7: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
After receiving the recommendations and report of the Planning Commission, the
City Council may pass the proposed amendment with or without change, may reject
it, may recommit it to the Planning Commission for further consideration, or
take other appropriate action. In the event of a protest against such district
change or amendment to the regulations of this title, duly signed and
acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the areas of the
land included in such proposed change, by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or
more of the land immediately adjacent extending two hundred fifty feet (250')
therefrom, such change or amendment shall not become effective except by the
favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the full City Council membership.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-11-8: AMENDMENT OF APPLICATION:
A proposed amendment or change to the terms of this chapter may be amended from
time to time as the City Council, Planning Commission or other appropriate
party may desire. A proposed amendment or change in the district map may also
be amended at any time by the applicant subject to the condition that the
publication and notice requirements herein established are again complied with.
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-11-9: EFFECT OF DENIAL OF ZONING CHANGE:
After a public hearing has been held and a zoning change denied in whole or
part by the City Council, an application for the same shall not be resubmitted
for a period of one (1) year from the date of such denial, unless allowed by
the City Council. In general, resubmission shall be allowed only if there is
substantial new evidence or proof of changed conditions to warrant
resubmission. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 12
FEES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Statement Of Intent
10-12-2: Application Fee Schedule
10-12-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
All persons, firms, or corporations performing work which by this title
requires the issuance of a permit shall pay a fee for such permit to the city
clerk to help defray the cost of administration, investigation, advertising,
and processing of permits and variances. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-12-2: APPLICATION FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Application fees established herein are not refundable, except where a
petition or application is withdrawn prior to advertising or posting of public
hearing notices for the petition, and then only by the order of the city
council. If a particular development requires more than one approval, then the
applicant shall pay the cumulative application fee for each approval sought.
   B.   The zoning administrator or planning commission may assign a fee to any
application procedure not mentioned herein. Such application fee should be
based on the fee for the most comparable application procedure listed herein.
   C.   The following fee schedule is hereby established:
      1.   Zoning Amendment Or Rezoning: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
There shall be no charge if an amendment or rezoning is initiated by the
planning commission or city council.
      2.   Subdivision: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) each for
preliminary and final plat approval, or the following, whichever is greater:
         a.   Preliminary Plat: Ten dollars ($10.00) per lot for the first
twenty (20) lots, with an additional fee of five dollars ($5.00) per lot for
each lot in excess of the first twenty (20) lots.
         b.   Final Plat: Ten dollars ($10.00) per lot for the first twenty
(20) lots, with an additional fee of five dollars ($5.00) per lot for each lot
in excess of the first twenty (20) lots.
         c.   Minimum Fee: The minimum application fee for preliminary or final
plat approval shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Annexation: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). There shall be no
charge if annexation is initiated by the planning commission or city council.
      4.   Special Use Permit: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      5.   Sign Permit:   Permanent signs: thirty dollars ($30.00).
            Temporary signs: ten dollars ($10.00).
      6.   Variance: One hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00).
      7.   Site Plan Review: Fifty dollars ($50.00) plus an additional five
dollars ($5.00) for every acre beyond the first acre.
      8.   Plat Vacations: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      9.   Zoning Board Of Appeals: One hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00).
      10.   Planned Unit Development: Two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      11.   Applications Requiring Public Hearing: For applications that
require a public hearing, there will be an additional charge of fifty dollars
($50.00) to offset the cost of the required advertisement in the newspaper.
      12.   Zoning Administrator Fees:
         a.   Site inspection, meetings, site plan review, and other duties for
which no fee is specifically indicated: twenty dollars ($20.00) per hour.
         b.   Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or
revisions to approve plans with a minimum charge for one-half (1/2) hour:
twenty dollars ($20.00) per hour.
   D.   The city council may make adjustments to the fee schedule as necessary,
by ordinance. Copies of the current fee schedule shall be available to the
public at the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 13
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Interpretation
10-13-2: Enforcement
10-13-3: Remedial Action
10-13-4: Violations And Penalties
10-13-1: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this zoning title
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of public
health, morals, safety or the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of
this title are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive or that imposing the
higher standards, shall govern. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-13-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The mayor shall appoint a zoning administrator with the consent of the city
council, whose duty it shall be to enforce the provisions of this zoning title.
Appeal from the decision of the zoning administrator may be made to the zoning
board of appeals, as provided in chapter 8, article C, of this title. (Ord.
2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-13-3: REMEDIAL ACTION:
Whenever an order of the zoning administrator has not been complied with within
thirty (30) days after written notice has been mailed to the owner, resident
agent or occupant of the premises, the city council, the building inspector, or
the city attorney may institute appropriate legal action or proceedings to
prohibit such owner, agent, or occupant from using such structure, land or
building. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
10-13-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
The owner or agent of a building, structure or land in or upon which a
violation has been committed or upon which a violation exists, or the lessee or
tenant of an entire building, entire structure or entire land in or upon which
a violation has been committed or should exist, or the agent, architect,
building contractor or any other person who commits, takes part or assists in
any violation or who maintains any building, structure or land in or upon which
violation shall exist or occur during the construction or improvement process,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense
as determined by the zoning administrator or city council; and/or the city may
proceed in a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction, to enjoin the
use of a building, structure or land in or upon which a violation has been
committed or shall exist. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day such violation occurs or continues. If an appeal is filed and is not
granted, the fines are effective from the time the city council makes its
decision until the violation is corrected. (Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 14
APPENDICES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Appendix A
10-14-2: Appendix B
 
10-14-1: APPENDIX A:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3c57f9b62bb0972ade8b495e9962ae23907a4ef6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1420.gif]
(Ord. 2008-7, 3-10-2009)
10-14-2: APPENDIX B:
APPENDIX B
CITY OF NAUVOO'S
ZONING SETBACK SUMMARY (In Feet)
Zoning   Front Yard Side Yard RearYard
District
Zoning   Front Yard Side Yard                    RearYard
District
RR       30 feet    20 feet                      30 feet
                    10 feet
R        25 feet    15 feet for two-family       30 feet
                    dwellings
                    40 feet for churches/schools
                    10 feet for 3 stories up to
RMF      25 feet    35 feet                      30 feet
                    15 feet for 3 stories up to
                    45 feet
RMH      20 feet    10 feet                      20 feet   
TTP      8 feet     10 feet                      5 feet
OM       Same setbacks as R and CC
                    5 feet                       25 feet
C        25 feet    25 feet next to R            Can be decreased to 10 feet
                                                 with larger front yard setback
CBD      n/a        n/a                          20 feet
                    10 feet next to R            25 feet next to R
I        25 feet    10 feet                      20 feet
                    25 feet next to R
PUD      n/a        n/a                          n/a
 
(Ord. 2001-2, 6-12-2001)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Application Procedure And Approval Process   2
Development Standards And Design Guidelines   3
General Requirements   4
Land/Cash Dedication For Public Use   5
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose And Intent
11-1-3: Policy
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Relation To Other Laws
11-1-6: Amendments
11-1-7: Separability
11-1-8: Definitions
11-1-9: Administration And Enforcement
11-1-10: Penalty
11-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as the
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF NAUVOO, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-
2004)
11-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   These regulations are adopted in order to establish the requirements
and standards regulating the subdivision and platting of land within the
corporate limits and plat approval jurisdiction of the city of Nauvoo, for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare of the
community.
   B.   The intent of these regulations is to provide for the orderly and
harmonious development of the city and the surrounding areas within the city's
planning jurisdiction. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-1-3: POLICY:
The following is declared to be the policy of the city concerning the
subdivision of land:
   A.   1. Whenever the owner of land subdivides or plats any land within the
planning jurisdiction of the city, said land shall be surveyed and a plat made
thereof by a professional land surveyor containing information required
hereinafter; all such plats shall be submitted to the city pursuant to the
provisions of this title. No lot or tract of land shall be divided or redivided
or in any manner utilized for the purpose of erecting more than one principal
building or use on such lot or tract of land without subdividing in accordance
with this title. No plat of any subdivision shall be valid nor entitled to
record unless and until the same has been approved by the city council, and no
such plat shall be approved without compliance with the standards and
improvements required as hereinafter set forth.
      2.   The requirements of the remainder of this title shall not apply to
those exceptions outlined in section
11-4-7 of this title, which shall be governed only by the requirements of that
section.
   B.   The subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the
subdivided plat are subject to the control of the city pursuant to the official
comprehensive plan of the city for the orderly, planned, efficient and
economical development of the city.
   C.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood
or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until proper provisions have
been made for drainage, water, sewerage and capital improvements such as parks,
recreation facilities, transportation facilities, natural areas and open space,
and related improvements.
   D.   The city council, upon recommendation of the planning commission, may
waive the requirements set forth herein in cases where the subdivision lies
within the one and one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction but will
have little effect on the future expansion of the city. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-
2004)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall be applicable to all subdivisions of land within the
corporate limits of the city and unincorporated land within one and one-half
(11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the city as provided by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes and 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes. The provisions of this
title are hereby adopted as part of the comprehensive plan of the city. (Ord.
2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-1-5: RELATION TO OTHER LAWS:
The provisions of these regulations shall supplement any and all laws of the
United States of America, state of Illinois, ordinances of the city of Nauvoo,
applicable ordinances of Hancock County, or any and all, rules and regulations
promulgated by authority of such law or ordinance relating to the purpose and
scope of these regulations. Whenever the requirements of these regulations are
not in correlation with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the higher standard shall govern. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-1-6: AMENDMENTS:
These regulations may be amended in accordance with the procedures defined
below:
   A.   Application For Amendment: The city council or city staff or any
private petitioner may apply for an amendment to the text of this title.
   B.   Fee Required: Any petition for an amendment by a private petitioner
shall be accompanied by a filing fee as established by the city council which
fee shall be deposited with the city clerk, and no part of the fee shall be
refundable.
   C.   Public Hearing: A public hearing must be held before the city council.
Public notice shall be provided in a local newspaper of general circulation not
greater than thirty (30) calendar days, nor less than fifteen (15) calendar
days, before the public hearing. At the public hearing, all testimony shall be
based in fact and shall be by sworn oath. The council maintains the right to
limit testimony to those facts relevant to the proposed amendment.
   D.   Final Decision: The city council, after the conclusion of the public
hearing(s), may adopt or deny the proposed amendment. No application, however,
which has been denied by the city council shall be resubmitted for a period of
one year from the date of said denial, except on grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-1-7: SEPARABILITY:
If any part or provision of these regulations or application thereof to any
person or circumstances is judged invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part,
provision or application directly involved in all controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the validity
of the remainder of these regulations or the application thereof to other
persons or circumstances. The city council hereby declares that it would have
enacted the remainder of these regulations even without any such part,
provision or application. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-1-8: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   In General: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; pronouns of male
gender refer to either male or female. Definitions not listed shall be the
standard dictionary definitions.
   B.   Specific Definitions:
ALLEY: A platted, dedicated and recorded passageway less than twenty feet (20')
in width, between rear or side property lines of lots, designed to serve as
secondary access to those lots.
ANNEXATION: Process by which the city limits are expanded to include specific
property.
ARTERIAL: A thoroughfare for the rapid movement of traffic, with a minimum
right of way of sixty feet (60') and speed limits commonly between thirty five
(35) and fifty five (55) miles per hour.
AS BUILT MAPS: Maps showing exact locations and depths of utilities and
infrastructure as installed.
BOND: A cash reserve commonly made by a bonding corporation, intended to assure
project completion according to approved specifications.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Infrastructure and utility installation such as streets,
sewer and water, storm water conveyance systems, and the like.
CATCH BASIN: A drainage instrument that collects excess storm water and other
runoff, and directs the runoff to the storm sewer system or present
watercourse.
COLLECTOR: A thoroughfare for the movement of traffic from arterials to
residential streets or other low volume areas, with a minimum right of way of
fifty feet (50') and speed limits between twenty five (25) to forty five (45)
miles per hour.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The adopted comprehensive plan, including all updates and
amendments, of the city.
CONTIGUOUS PROPERTY: Property adjoining at lot lines at no less than two (2)
corners and along the line between those two (2) corners.
COUNTY HEALTH OFFICIAL: The duly appointed official of the Hancock County
health department, or designee thereof.
CUL-DE-SAC: A short local street ending in a circular turnaround providing
sufficient room for automotive ingress and egress, and of sufficient radius for
access by emergency equipment.
CURB: A formal raised edge designating the outside edge of the street, also
used for the conveyance of storm water.
DEBRIS: Rocks, tree waste, building debris or demolition waste and other
extraneous materials generated by site grading and soil preparation, which are
undesirable on the final site.
DEDICATED PROPERTY: Property to be donated to the city to become publicly owned
and maintained.
ELEVATIONS: The height above sea level of an area of land; or the proposed
cross section showing changes in height of an improvement such as a sewer or a
road.
ENGINEER: An engineer duly licensed and registered by the state of Illinois.
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT: The city engineer of the city or his designee thereof.
ENGINEERING SCALE: A scale of ten feet (10') per inch or multiples thereof.
EROSION: The movement or removal of soil, rock or vegetation by natural forces
such as wind or moving water.
EXCAVATION: The use of manmade or mechanical means to move soil, rock or
vegetation.
FINAL PLAT: A plat submitted for final approval, showing all information as
required herein.
FINAL SITE PLAN: A site plan submitted as part of the final plat application,
showing all information as required herein.
FINAL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL: Final approval of all subdivision plats by the city
council and all other necessary local authorities; in no way is any preliminary
approval to be construed as any form of final subdivision approval.
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of measure for luminance. A unit of luminance on a surface
that is everywhere one foot (1') from a uniform point source of light of one
candle and equal to one lumen per square foot. A foot-candle (fc) is the amount
of light falling on a surface one foot (1') square in area from a standard
candle one foot (1') away.
FORMAL OFFER OF DEDICATION: A written statement outlining the offer to
permanently transfer all rights of title or interest for infrastructure
improvements and/or property to the city or other governmental body.
FRONTAGE: The side of the lot facing a street, road or thoroughfare. The front
yard setback is measured perpendicular to the frontage.
FRONTAGE, MULTIPLE: Lots containing frontage along more than one street or
road. Multiple frontages are to be avoided except for corner lots, which must
be large enough to accommodate the two (2) required front yard setbacks along
each frontage.
FULL CUTOFF TYPE FIXTURE: A luminaire or light fixture that by design of the
housing does not allow any light dispersion or direct glare to shine above a
ninety degree (90°) horizontal plane from the base of the fixture. (Note: New
development shall be in compliance with the outdoor lighting regulations in the
zoning ordinance.)
INTERSECTION OFFSET: The gap between the centerlines of roads or streets
adjoining a common road at the same intersection from opposite or the same
sides.
LOCAL STREET: A residential or other low volume street used primarily for
access to abutting property, with a minimum fifty foot (50') right of way,
speed limits of thirty (30) miles per hour or less.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT DIMENSIONS: The property line lengths and corner angles that define the
perimeter of the lot.
LOT IMPROVEMENTS: Provision of utilities and/or infrastructure and/or
excavation which make a lot buildable.
LOT, IRREGULAR: A lot which is not a standard rectangular shape.
LOT, OVERSIZE: A lot which is more than ten percent (10%) larger than
surrounding lots.
LOT, REMNANT: A lot of irregular shape, small size or unusual topography that
is unbuildable because of the above reasons.
LUMEN: The basic unit of measurement for light. A dinner candle puts out about
twelve (12) lumens, while a six hundred (600) watt soft white bulb produces
eight hundred fifty five (855) lumens.
LUMENS PER WATT: The measurement of how efficient a lighting source is.
LUMINAIRE OF FIXTURE: A complete lighting unit including the lamps or bulbs,
together with the parts required to distribute the light, to position and
protect the lamps, and to connect the lamps to the power supply.
MANHOLE: Sewer connection humanly accessible at the surface level.
MONUMENTS: Permanent markers designating certain points or corners of the
layout of a lot or parcel in accordance with the regulations herein.
OTHER GOVERNING BODIES: Federal, state, county, township or local officials or
agencies having jurisdiction within the city limits or the one and one-half
(11/2) mile zoning and subdivision jurisdiction.
OWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An organization established by agreement, consisting of
landowners of property in the proposed subdivision, for the purpose of
establishing design guidelines or review, or for the purpose of regulating and
maintaining private common areas, and the like.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The duly appointed planning commission of the city.
PLAT: Scale drawing depicting subject property and proposed lot divisions,
including all other information as required herein.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: Drawing of property proposed to be subdivided with all
information as required herein.
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPROVAL: Tentative approval to subdivide based upon
preliminary documents and authorization to proceed in preparing final plat
documents. In no way is preliminary subdivision approval to be construed as
final subdivision approval.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Infrastructure intended to serve more than one property or
lot and serviced by a utility company or taxing body, i.e., streets, water,
sewer, power, telephone, and the like.
PUBLIC USE: Open to the general population for proposed uses, generally
unrestricted except for city ordinance regulations.
PUBLIC WAYS: Streets, roads, sidewalks or other designated means for the free
horizontal movement of people and/or machines.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANT: A private, legal restriction of the use of land,
contained in the deed or otherwise formally recorded.
RIGHT OF WAY: Entire width of property dedicated for public uses, such as
streets, sidewalks, water and sewer lines, and the like.
SECTIONALIZE (PLAT): To break a proposed subdivision into manageable phases,
with each phase not to be less than ten percent (10%) of the gross land area of
the project, each phase to be executed at a different period of time.
SIDEWALK: A public way intended primarily for pedestrian movement.
SITE PLAN: A development plan that illustrates the existing conditions on a
parcel of land as well as depicting details of proposed developments, including
all information as required herein.
SKETCH PLAT: A rough plan of a proposed development, created primarily for city
staff review and comment, including all information as required herein.
STORM WATER PLAN: A plan for the conveyance of excess storm water, prepared in
accordance with 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes.
STREET HIERARCHY: Conceptual arrangement of streets based on function, speed,
right of way widths, and design, for the purpose of promoting safety,
efficiency and quality.
STREET SIGNS: All directional, functional, safety and regulation signs for use
on streets as required by the city.
STREETS AND ROADS: Public ways intended primarily for the movement of motorized
vehicles.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a parcel of land into more than one smaller
parcels, usually to permit the development of the land.
SUBDIVISION, COMMERCIAL: A subdivision which creates lots suitable for and
intended for commercial or institutional purposes.
SUBDIVISION, INDUSTRIAL: A subdivision which creates lots suitable for and
intended for industrial purposes.
SUBDIVISION, RESIDENTIAL: A subdivision which creates lots suitable for and
intended for residential purposes.
TOPOGRAPHY: The vertical and horizontal planes which define the surface
features of property.
UTILITY SYSTEM: The system which provides services including, but not limited
to, sewer, water, gas, electricity and/or cable television.
VARIANCE: A special exception to the regulations of title 10, chapter 2 of this
code, granted by the city council, when the applicant can sufficiently prove
that the strict application of this chapter allows no reasonable use of
property, or imposes such practical difficulties that the provisions of this
chapter would deny the landowner rights commonly enjoyed by others.
WATER BODIES: Large pools of surface water which occur throughout the year in
the same location, or rivers or streams.
WATER MAINS: Pipes which provide potable water to a development from a common
water supply.
WOODED AREAS: Areas that are covered by a dense growth of trees and associated
underbrush.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The zoning administrator of the city, or designee
thereof.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The duly appointed members of the zoning board of
appeals of the city.
ZONING SETBACK: The minimum open area measured horizontally on which no
structure may be built, as required by title 10, chapter 2 of this code or
other appropriate zoning ordinances. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-1-9: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the city attorney any violations
or lack of compliance herewith.
   B.   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a final plat
of such subdivision has been approved by the city council and signed by the
mayor, in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, and filed with
the county recorder of deeds.
   C.   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land, by the use of metes
and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer or lease with the
intent of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted. All such described
subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in these
regulations.
   D.   No building or zoning permit shall be issued for the construction of
any building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in
violation of the provisions of these regulations. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-1-10: PENALTY:
   A.   Violations And Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation who fails to
comply with, or violates, any of these regulations shall be subject to a state
fine of not more than twenty five dollars ($25.00) per lot, pursuant to the
provisions of the "plat act", 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/5 et seq., and
additional penalties as prescribed by the city or county.
   B.   Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by
law or in equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a
violation, to prevent illegal occupancy of a building structure or premises,
and these remedies shall be in addition to the penalties in subsection A of
this section.
   C.   Commencement Of Work Without Procedural Compliance: In the event any
work is started prior to following the proper procedures outlined in this
title, a stop work order shall be issued by the zoning administrator, building
official, city engineer or the mayor. An immediate fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) will be imposed. After the stop work order is issued,
the violator will be given three (3) days to begin proceedings for subdivision
approval. Work will not commence until either final subdivision approval is
granted in accordance with these regulations, or the city council determines to
waive its subdivision regulations to this particular project. In the event the
violator does not commence the procedure to obtain the proper subdivision
approval within the three (3) days, a fine of not more than twenty five dollars
($25.00) per lot per day will be imposed until such procedure is commenced.
(Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 2
APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Scope Of Regulations
11-2-2: Discussion Of Requirements
11-2-3: Submittal Of Sketch Plat
11-2-4: Preliminary Subdivision Approval
11-2-5: Final Subdivision Approval
11-2-6: Denial Of Final Plat
11-2-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, before any contract is made for
the sale of any part thereof, and before any permit for the erection of a
structure in such proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner,
or his authorized agent, shall apply for and secure approval of such proposed
subdivision in accordance with the procedure set forth in this chapter. (Ord.
2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-2-2: DISCUSSION OF REQUIREMENTS:
Before making application for subdivision approval, the applicant may meet with
the zoning administrator and/or planning commission to discuss the requirements
of these regulations, including, but not limited to, procedure for plat
approval, zoning, general layout of streets, land dedications, street
improvements, drainage, sewerage, fire protection, availability of existing
services and similar matters which may assist the applicant in preparing the
sketch plat. The zoning administrator and/or planning commission shall also
advise the applicant, where appropriate, to discuss the proposed subdivision
with other officials who may eventually approve aspects of the subdivision plat
coming within the jurisdiction of those officials. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-2-3: SUBMITTAL OF SKETCH PLAT:
   A.   Application Procedure And Requirements For Sketch Plat: Prior to
subdividing land, an owner of the land, or his representative, may file an
application with the zoning administrator for approval of a sketch plat. The
application shall be on forms provided by the city and shall include the
following:
      1.   A signed affidavit stating the legal owner(s) of the property,
including all beneficiaries, if the property is in a land trust, and a copy of
any contractual agreements between the applicant and the owner; and
      2.   A minimum of seven (7) copies of the sketch plat as described in
subsection C of this section.
      3.   There are no fees related to the submittal of the sketch plat.
   B.   Classification: Upon submission of the sketch plat and application, the
zoning administrator and/or planning commission shall determine, as per the
definitions in section
11-1-8 of this title, whether the proposed subdivision shall be classified a
residential subdivision, a commercial subdivision, or an industrial
subdivision; and therefore meet the requirements of such.
   C.   Content Requirements Of The Sketch Plat: Sketch plats submitted to the
zoning administrator for sketch plat approval shall be drawn to a standard
engineering scale of not more than one hundred feet to the inch (100' = 1"),
and shall include the following information:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision, or the name of the property
owner if no subdivision name has been chosen;
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the legal or beneficial
interest owner or agent of the property, and a copy of the last instrument
conveying title to each parcel of property involved in the proposed
subdivision;
      3.   A list of any existing legal rights of way and easements affecting
the property;
      4.   Any existing covenants on the property;
      5.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of any professional engineers
or surveyors responsible for any aspect of the design or layout of the proposed
subdivision;
      6.   Written description of the property, including location by lot,
section, township, range and county; date; and names of adjoining property
owners within two hundred fifty feet (250') of any perimeter boundary of the
proposed subdivision;
      7.   Graphic presentation of location of property lines; existing
easements; rights of way; wooded areas or isolated trees six inches (6") or
more in diameter measured four feet (4') above ground level; location, width,
and names of all platted streets or other public ways, both existing or
proposed, within or immediately adjacent to the property;
      8.   Graphic presentation of location of existing and proposed sewers or
alternative methods of providing for sanitary waste treatment and disposal;
water mains or alternative methods of providing water supply; culverts and
other underground structures within or immediately adjacent to the property;
and preliminary provisions for collecting and discharging surface water
drainage;
      9.   Graphic presentation of the approximate location, dimensions and
areas of all existing and proposed lots, including all parcels of land proposed
to be set aside for park or other public use; written description of the
proposed use of each lot;
      10.   Existing and approximate proposed topography of the property, in
not greater than ten foot (10') increments; and a study of the proposed
topography and how the flow of storm water will be changed as a result of the
proposed changes in topography;
      11.   If the sketch plat only covers a portion of the contiguous property
holdings of the applicant, the applicant shall include a sketch of the entire
contiguous property holdings, including the proposed subdivision area with the
proposed street and drainage systems, and an indication of the probable future
street and drainage systems of the remainder of the property. This sketch must
be made with a scale of not more than two hundred feet to the inch (200' = 1"),
if feasible, or an appropriate scale to fit the sketch on a sheet of reasonable
size.
   D.   Review And Approval Of Sketch Plat: Following submission of the sketch
plat and application, the planning commission shall review the sketch plat to
assure compliance with these and other applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and/or other governing bodies. The zoning administrator and/or
planning commission shall work with the applicant to make required changes or
additions to the sketch plat as needed. Following satisfactory approval of the
sketch plat by the zoning administrator and/or planning commission, the
applicant shall be authorized to prepare and submit a preliminary plat. Any
conditions on the sketch plat which could not be resolved without a variance or
otherwise approved by the city council, shall be noted on the preliminary plat
for appropriate action. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-2-4: PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   Application Procedure And Requirements:
      1.   Based upon the approval of the zoning administrator and/or planning
commission of the sketch plat, the applicant shall file an application for
approval of a preliminary plat. The application shall be made on forms provided
by the city, and shall include the following:
         a.   A check made out to the city for an amount of the preliminary
plat application fee, as determined by the city council;
         b.   A minimum of seven (7) copies of the preliminary plat as
described in these regulations; and
         c.   A minimum of seven (7) copies of the site plans described in
these regulations.
      2.   Additionally, the preliminary plat shall comply in all aspects with
the approved sketch plat, including all specific conditions which require city
council approval, and the preliminary plat shall be presented to the planning
commission at least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting of the zoning board of
appeals or city council at which subdivision consideration is desired. Within
three (3) working days of the receipt of a complete application, the planning
commission shall notify, in writing, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or served in person, the president of the school board of each
district in which the proposed subdivision is located. The notice shall state
that a plat has been submitted for approval and shall give the date, time and
place of the hearing for consideration of the plat. Additionally, the state
department of transportation, the appropriate local highway authority, the
supervisor of each township in which the proposed subdivision is located, the
county clerk and the county health department shall be notified that a plat has
been submitted for approval and shall give the other information outlined
above.
   B.   Preliminary Plat Requirements:
      1.   The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a professional land
surveyor at a standard engineering scale of not more that one hundred feet per
inch (100' = 1"), and shall be of such size as is acceptable for filing in the
office of the recorder of deeds, but shall be no smaller than eight and one-
half inches by fourteen inches (81/2" x 14"), or no larger than thirty inches
by thirty six inches (30" x 36"). If accepted by the city council without
changes, the preliminary plat documents may also serve as part of the final
plat documents. The preliminary plat must include all the requirements of the
sketch plat, and in addition shall be accurately drawn to scale, and also must
include the following information:
         a.   The location, names and dimensions of all existing and proposed
streets and easements, alleys and other public ways; the locations and
dimensions of all streams, rivers, wetlands and other water bodies; the
location and dimensions of all other existing buildings, parks, drainage
ditches and other pertinent features;
         b.   The locations, dimensions and areas of all existing and proposed
lots;
         c.   The locations and dimensions of all property proposed to be set
aside for public use, with designation of the purpose and conditions of the
dedication.
         d.   The date, true north point, scale, and proposed name of the
subdivision;
         e.   Indication of the use of each lot in the subdivision;
         f.   Sufficient data acceptable to the city engineer to determine the
location, bearing, and length of all lines, and to reproduce such lines upon
the ground, including the locations of all monuments;
         g.   Additional specifications and requirements as deemed necessary
and specified by the city council or the planning commission.
      2.   The lack of information required above, or the provision of improper
information on the part of the subdivider, may cause disapproval of the
preliminary plat as provided for in section
11-2-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Site Plan Requirements: Site plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn at the same scale as the preliminary plat,
and plan sheets shall be of the same size as the preliminary plat. The site
plans shall include the following information:
      1.   Plans showing locations and slopes of all existing and proposed
streets;
      2.   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross sections
of street pavements including proposed locations and cross sections of curbs
and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements, rights of way, manholes and catch
basins; the proposed method of sewage waste disposal; the proposed locations of
street trees, street lighting standards, and street signs; the locations of
existing and proposed sanitary sewers and storm water drains; the locations of
all fire hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed utility
systems; and proposed location and size of all underground utilities or
structures;
      3.   Location, size, elevation and other appropriate descriptions of any
existing amenities, water bodies or streams, railroads, buildings, trees of
eight inch (8") diameter or larger measured four feet (4') above the ground,
the point of connection to proposed facilities and utilities within the
subdivision, and any features noted in the comprehensive plan;
      4.   Existing and proposed topography, with a contour interval of two
feet (2'), showing all excavation to be performed and all on site drainage
control measures, and a study of the effects of the proposed excavations on the
flow of storm water should be documented and signed by a hydrological engineer;
      5.   Location of proposed building(s) with finish floor elevations;
      6.   If applicable, location of the 100-year floodplain boundaries with
elevations;
      7.   All other standards and specifications required by the city in
regard to construction;
      8.   Natural resources report from the county soil and water conservation
district; endangered species report from the state department of conservation,
and reports from other authorities as required by the planning commission;
      9.   Additional specifications and requirements as deemed necessary by
the city council or the planning commission.
   D.   Review:
      1.   Following preliminary plat application, the planning commission and
other appropriate officials of the city shall review the preliminary plat
application for completeness and compliance with the requirements set forth in
this chapter and in the sketch plat review. In the case of any deficiency on
the part of the application, the planning commission shall inform the applicant
in writing which sets forth specific aspects of the proposal which do not
comply with the subdivision regulations set forth by the city. If the applicant
does not correct the deficiencies outlined by the planning commission in time
for city council or zoning board of appeals review at the desired meeting, the
city may hold over the application until such a time as when the deficiencies
have been corrected. The planning commission shall, within ninety (90) days
from the date of submission of the last item of required supporting data, make
a recommendation to the city council.
      2.   In cases of proposed subdivisions which will have a substantial
effect on the orderly development of the city, or which are not in accordance
with the provisions of the comprehensive plan, the planning commission reserves
the right to refer the preliminary plat to the city's consultants for comment
before action by the zoning board of appeals or city council.
   E.   Public Hearing:
      1.   If zoning action is necessary, the planning commission or zoning
board of appeals shall hold a public hearing and provide public notice on the
preliminary plat at the same time and place as the public hearing for the
zoning action. The planning commission or zoning board of appeals shall review
and hear all public testimony regarding the zoning action, preliminary plat and
site plans, and make a recommendation to the city council to approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the preliminary plat. Then the preliminary plat
approval process shall move to the city council for action in the same manner
as the zoning application.
      2.   The city council shall review and hear all public testimony
regarding the preliminary plat and site plans and move to action at the next
city council meeting.
   F.   City Council Review And Approval:
      1.   Following review and recommendation by the planning commission/
zoning board of appeals, or review of the public hearing held by the city
council, the city council shall, within thirty (30) days of the planning
commission or zoning board of appeals action or a public hearing before the
council, review the preliminary plat and site plans. The city council shall
advise the applicant of any changes and/or additions to the preliminary plat
and construction plans necessary for approval. The city council shall then,
without further public hearing, approve, approve with conditions or deny the
preliminary plat. Approval of the application shall authorize the applicant to
prepare and submit the final subdivision plat with corrections and conditions,
if any, required for preliminary plat approval. If the preliminary subdivision
is denied, the city council shall state specific reasons for denial, and the
applicant shall be provided sixty (60) days to resubmit a revised application
without paying additional fees. In no way is preliminary subdivision approval
to serve as final subdivision approval.
      2.   Upon planning commission recommendation, the council may request to
hold public hearings involving commercial, industrial, mixed use, and major
subdivision applications jointly with the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2003-
12, 2-10-2004)
11-2-5: FINAL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   Application Procedure And Requirements:
      1.   Following approval of the preliminary plat, the applicant, if he
wishes to proceed with the subdivision, shall file with the planning commission
an application for final approval of a subdivision plat. The applicant must
apply for final subdivision approval within one year of the date of preliminary
subdivision approval. The application shall be made on forms provided by the
city, and shall include the following:
         a.   Application Fee: A check made out to the city for an amount of
the final subdivision plat application fee, as determined by the city council.
         b.   Copies Of Final Plat: A minimum of ten (10) copies of the final
plat as described in these regulations.
         c.   Copies Of Site Plans: A minimum of ten (10) copies of the site
plans described in these regulations.
         d.   Documentation: A statement indicating the formal offer of
dedication, including a full covenant and warranty deed to all such lands in
proper form for recording, together with a title insurance policy for the local
government in a sum which shall be determined by the city attorney.
         e.   Endorsement Of Other Authorities: The final subdivision plat
shall include a statement of endorsement by the county department of public
health with respect to all sewer and water facilities and that the same comply
with all rules, regulations, and requirements of the local governmental bodies,
state, and national authorities. Additionally, the plat shall include
statements from appropriate county and township authorities that the plat
complies with the requirements of that authority, and is approved for recording
as provided for herein. The plat must also be signed by any other applicable
agencies exercising jurisdiction, such as FEMA, HUD, IDOT, county soil and
water district, or other authorities.
      2.   Additionally, the final plat must comply in all aspects to the
preliminary plat, including all changes and conditions necessary for city
council approval.
   B.   Final Plat Document Requirements: The final subdivision plat shall be
presented at the same scale and contain the same information, except any
changes or additions required by the city council, as shown on the preliminary
plat. The preliminary plat documents may be used as part of the final
subdivision plat documents if those documents meet the requirements provided
herein, and are revised in accordance with city council requirements. All
revisions should be completed by the professional land surveyor who prepared
the original documents, and all revision dates must be shown as well as the
following:
      1.   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, and restrictive covenants
to be filed with the final subdivision plat.
      2.   Endorsement of the county department of public health, appropriate
township and county authorities, and appropriate utility companies, as provided
for above.
      3.   Lots, parcels and blocks numbered by consecutive progressive
numbers.
      4.   All monuments erected, corners, and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners, or
other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend. The legend for metal monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the
diameter and length of the monuments.
      5.   A final plat showing the final dimensions and layout of all lots,
streets, and other information, and shall be stamped and signed by a
professional land surveyor licensed by the state.
      6.   A full set of site plans, stamped and signed by an engineer licensed
by the state, setting forth the proposed final engineering and design of all
infrastructure and streets and roads proposed to be installed by the developer;
the final topography of the site, shown to two foot (2') contours; and any
other final site information as may be required by the city engineer or zoning
administrator.
   C.   Review: Following final plat application, the planning commission and
other appropriate officials of the city shall review the final plat application
for completeness and compliance with the requirements set forth by the city
council. In the case of any deficiency on the part of the application, the
planning department shall inform the applicant in writing. If the applicant
does not correct the deficiencies outlined by the planning commission in time
for city council review at the desired meeting, the city may hold over the
application until such a time as when the deficiencies have been corrected.
   D.   City Council Review And Approval: The city council shall review the
final subdivision plat application within sixty (60) days of the official
submission of the final subdivision plat application, or the last required plat
documents, whichever is later. The city council, without further public
hearing, shall approve or deny the final subdivision plat. Upon approval of the
application, the plat should be signed and recorded according to the procedure
set forth in this section.
   E.   Performance Guarantee: Before the final plat is signed and recorded,
the city council shall require the applicant to post a bond, place cash in an
escrow account, provide an irrevocable standby letter of credit, or otherwise
prove financial ability to complete the project as proposed to the satisfaction
of the city council and according to the following requirements:
      1.   The performance guarantee shall be of a necessary amount, as
determined by the city engineer, to assure the completion of the required
street, sanitary and lot improvements to the satisfaction of the city engineer.
The performance guarantee shall comply with all statutory requirements and
shall be satisfactory to the city attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner
of execution.
      2.   If a bond is posted, the bond shall be held until all of the
required public improvements are completed to the satisfaction of the city
engineer. At that time, the bond shall be reduced to an amount determined by
the city engineer to be sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory installation
of the remaining lot improvements and the maintenance of the required public
improvements until the dedications of the public improvements have been
officially accepted.
      3.   Upon satisfactory completion of the required lot improvements as
determined by the city engineer and the zoning administrator, and upon
acceptance of the dedications set forth in the final plat, the required bond or
escrow account shall be fully released by signature of the mayor and attested
by the city clerk.
   F.   Signing And Recording Of Plat: The following shall be the required
procedure for the official signing and recording of the final plat:
      1.   The mayor, city clerk, zoning administrator and city engineer shall
endorse approval of the final plat upon satisfactory posting of the required
bond and satisfactory completion of the conditions of the resolution approving
the final plat.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the surveyor to file the approved
final subdivision plat with the county recorder of deeds office within thirty
(30) days of the date of signature. Any agreements of dedication and any other
documents as may he required by the city attorney shall be filed simultaneously
with the final plat.
   G.   Sectionalizing Major Subdivision Plats: Prior to granting final
approval of a major subdivision plat, the city council may permit the plat to
be divided into two (2) or more sections and may impose such conditions upon
the filing of the sections as it may deem necessary to assure the orderly
development of the plat. The city council may require that the performance bond
be in such amount as is commensurate with the section or sections of the plat
to be filed and may defer the remaining required performance bond principal
amount until the remaining sections of the plat are offered for filing. The
developer may also file irrevocable offers to dedicate streets and public
improvements in the sections offered to be filed and defer filing offers of
dedication for the remaining sections until such sections, subject to any
conditions imposed by the city council, shall be granted concurrently with
final approval of the plat. In the event of approval of sectionalizing, the
entire approved subdivision plat including all sections shall be filed within
ninety (90) days after the date of final approval with the city clerk and such
sections as have been authorized by the city council shall be filed with the
county recorder of deeds. Such sections shall contain at least ten percent
(10%) of the total number of lots contained in the approved plat. The approval
of all remaining sections not filed with the county recorder of deeds shall
automatically expire unless such sections have been approved for filing by the
city council, all fees paid, all instruments and offers of dedication submitted
and performance bonds approved and actually filed with the recorder of deeds
within three (3) years of the date of the original final subdivision approval
of the subdivision plat. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-2-6: DENIAL OF FINAL PLAT:
The city council may deny final approval of any subdivision application for any
of the following reasons, or any combination thereof:
   A.   Failure of applicant to comply with the regulations and provisions of
this title or any other applicable ordinance(s) of the city;
   B.   Failure of the applicant to prepare a final plat which complies in all
aspects to the approved preliminary plat;
   C.   Failure to obtain approval or positive recommendations from other
authorities;
   D.   Failure to comply with the adopted comprehensive plan or other city
planning documents;
   E.   Lack of, or inability to provide, adequate public utilities or
infrastructure for proposed lots;
   F.   Presence of poor soils, wetlands, endangered species, unbuildable
topography, floodplains or other natural problems which make the proposed area
unsuitable for development; or
   G.   Other reasons which may make development unsuitable or undesirable for
the proposed area, provided said reasons are clearly based in fact(s) presented
at a public hearing. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 3
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND DESIGN GUIDELINES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Scope Of Regulations
11-3-2: Self-Imposed Restrictions
11-3-3: Engineering Standards
11-3-4: Lot Layout And Improvements
11-3-5: Dedicated Property
11-3-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The following regulations and guidelines in this chapter shall apply to all
subdivision applications. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-3-2: SELF-IMPOSED RESTRICTIONS:
If the applicant places restrictions on any of the land contained in the
subdivision that are more restrictive than those required by city ordinances,
such restrictions must be indicated on the final subdivision plat and a
restrictive covenant filed with the final plat at the county recorder of deeds
office. Such restrictions are not enforced by local authorities. (Ord. 2003-12,
2-10-2004)
11-3-3: ENGINEERING STANDARDS:
The following standards of the engineering department are to be adhered to for
any subdivision:
   A.   Monuments: The applicant shall have permanent reference monuments
placed in the subdivision as required by 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes, plat
and as required herein:
      1.   Monuments shall be located on street right of way lines, at street
intersections, angle points of curve and block corners. They shall be spaced so
as to be within sight of each other, the sightlines being contained wholly
within the street limits.
      2.   The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the
field by monuments of stone or concrete, not less than thirty inches (30") in
length, not less than four inches (4") square or five inches (5") in diameter,
and marked on the top with a cross, brass plug, iron rod or other durable
material securely imbedded. These monuments shall be placed not more than one
thousand four hundred feet (1,400') apart in any straight line and at all
corners, at each end of all curves, at the point where a curve changes its
radius, at all angle points in any line, and at all angle points along a
meander line, the points to be not less than twenty feet (20') back from the
bank of any river or stream, except that when such corners or points fall
within a street, or proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed in
the side line of the street.
      3.   All internal boundaries and those corners and points not referred to
in subsection A2 of this section shall be monumented in the field by like
monuments as described above. These monuments shall be placed at all block
corners, at each end of all curves, at a point where any curve changes its
radius and at all angle points in any line.
      4.   All such monuments shall be set flush with the ground and planted in
such manner that they will not be removed by frost.
      5.   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground and approved by a
professional land surveyor prior to the time the city council approves the
final plat.
   B.   Streets And Roads: The following regulations shall apply to all new
streets and roads within the subdivision:
      1.   The right of way shall be measured from lot line to lot line and
shall be sufficiently wide to contain the pavement, curbs, shoulders,
sidewalks, utilities, drainage structures or systems, street lighting and
street trees to be placed in the right of  way. The right of way width of a new
street that is a continuation of an existing street shall in no case be
continued at a width less than that of the existing street. In no case except
approved alleys shall a right of way width be less than fifty feet (50').
      2.   Streets shall be classified by the city engineer, and the street
hierarchy shall be defined by the city engineer based on road function, design,
slopes and average daily traffic.
      3.   Street width shall consider possible limitations imposed by sight
distances, climate, terrain and maintenance needs. Street widths for each
street classification shall be determined by the city engineer in accordance
with the minimums outlined in appendix 1 of this section. All curves,
gradients, intersection angles and cul-de-sac lengths shall be subject to city
engineer approval.
      4.   Pavement thickness shall vary by street classification, subgrade
properties and pavement type as specified by the city engineer and in
accordance with the minimums outlined in appendix 1 of this section.
      5.   Arterial and collector streets shall be continued in direct
alignment. Local streets shall conform to the prevailing topography of the
subdivision. In no case shall intersection offsets of less than one hundred
twenty feet (120') center to center be allowed.
      6.   Street grades shall be determined by the city engineer according to
street classification and topography. In no case are grades to be less than 0.5
percent or more than twelve percent (12%), unless topography dictates a steeper
slope for a portion of a street less than five hundred (500) linear feet.
      7.   Curb and gutter shall be required on two (2) sides of the street and
constructed in accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction, Illinois Department Of Transportation, January 1, 2002", and as
amended. Curbing shall be designed for handicapped access as required by the
state.
      8.   Traffic regulation signs and other necessary appurtenances shall be
provided and installed by the developer in accordance with the city engineer.
Streetlights shall be installed in accordance with the city's lighting
requirements and standards.
      9.   The subdivider shall be responsible for keeping clear of ice, snow
and storm debris all dedicated streets within the subdivision which have been
improved but not yet accepted by the city. If the subdivider fails to clear
ice, snow or storm debris from any such street within six (6) hours of the
beginning of any snowfall or storm, such failure shall be considered a
violation of the provisions of this chapter. In the case that the subdivider
fails to keep clear any streets, the city may clear those streets and assess
charges for that service against the subdivider.
   C.   Sidewalks:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be required on at least one side, as further defined
in appendix 1 of this section, along all new street frontages and constructed
in accordance with the city's specifications for concrete walks and driveways.
Note: Locating underground utilities under sidewalks shall be avoided.
      2.   In addition, the city council may require a pedestrian trail system
to be installed in accordance with any plan for pedestrian linkages. All trails
and sidewalks shall link the proposed subdivision to pedestrianways in
developed areas of the city.
   D.   Water And Sewer: The following water and sewer standards shall apply to
all new construction within the subdivision:
      1.   In subdivisions within or contiguous to the city, where water and/or
sewer are available, all new construction must be provided with public water
and sewer. The water supply system and sewer collection system shall be
designed by a state licensed engineer and approved by the city engineer to
provide sufficient capacity based upon full development of the subdivision.
Fire hydrant size and type shall be specified by the city engineer, location
and installation shall comply with or exceed the recommendations of the
superintendent of public works of the city. All water and sewer improvements
shall be located in the street rights of way, or within easements dedicated for
that purpose.
      2.   Water and sewer system design, well and septic system design shall
be appropriate to the subdivision and are subject to approval by the zoning
administrator, city engineer, the superintendent of public works, the county
health department and/or all other state and federal authorities.
      3.   Alternative water and sewer systems may be allowed with zoning
administrator, city engineer, superintendent of public works and county health
officer approval in areas where a public sewer is not available. Adequate
financial guarantees, in an amount acceptable to the city council, must be
submitted with the final subdivision approval application to ensure adequate
water and sewer service at the time of development.
      4.   Each ancillary sewer and water facility required for the
subdivision, such as booster stations, lift stations and wells, shall be
connected to a stationary generator for secondary power supply in the event of
an electrical power outage. Said generators shall be installed by and at the
expense of the subdivider and as specified by the city engineer.
   E.   Storm Water And Drainage: A storm water drainage plan shall be provided
in conformity with 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes. Such a plan shall apply to
the subdivision as a whole and shall apply jointly to individual lots. Storm
water shall be conducted via a system of catch basins and pipes to detention
basins and/or existing drainage courses. Drainage swales shall not be utilized
for the transport of storm water in the public storm water collection system.
   F.   Utilities: All utility installations and easements shall be according
to the standards and regulations of the individual utility company. In cases
where no standards apply, improvements and easements are subject to city
engineer approval. All utilities shall be located within the street rights of
way or in easements dedicated for utility purposes. All utilities shall be
located underground whenever practical.
   G.   Nonresidential Subdivisions: The city engineer or city council may
require more restrictive construction of public improvements, infrastructure,
and utilities in cases of industrial, commercial and mixed use subdivisions.
   H.   Lighting Requirements And Standards:
      1.   Requirement: At the expense of the developer, all public streets,
sidewalks, parking lots and other common areas or facilities in subdivisions
created after the effective date of this section shall be sufficiently
illuminated to ensure the security of property and the safety of persons using
such streets, sidewalks, parking lots or other common areas or facilities.
Material used shall comply with the city's current outdoor lighting
regulations.
      2.   Installation: The developer shall install lighting facilities
conforming to the city's current outdoor lighting regulations. Street lighting
shall only be installed by the current city approved installer and supplier.
         a.   Failure by the developer to cause his or her contractor to obtain
permits and inspections may result in the city not accepting the street
lighting as a public improvement.
         b.   The city shall be responsible for the maintenance, replacement
and energy costs incurred after the approved installation and acceptance of the
lighting facility.
      3.   Fixture Standards:
         a.   All newly created public streets within subdivisions shall have
streetlights installed at a maximum spacing of three hundred feet (300') and
shall not exceed a minimum average ground level foot-candle (fc) illumination
of 0.45 for residential uses and an average ground level foot-candle (fc)
illumination of 1.8 for nonresidential uses.
         b.   Streetlights in residential subdivisions shall not exceed thirty
feet (30') in height.
         c.   Lights in nonresidential subdivisions shall not exceed thirty
feet (30') in height.
         d.   All fixtures shall be full cutoff or a shielded type, not
allowing any upward distribution of light. Full cutoff fixtures must be
installed in a horizontal position as designed. Up lighting shall be
prohibited.
         e.   Streetlights shall employ a high pressure sodium vapor lamp that
produces a yellow or orange light.
      4.   Lighting Plan: The developer shall submit sufficient information in
the form of an overall exterior lighting and photometric plan to enable the
planning commission to determine that the applicable provisions of this code
will be satisfied. The plan shall include at least the following:
         a.   A site plan, drawn to a standard engineering scale of not more
than one hundred feet to the inch (100' = 1"), showing the building footprints
or buildable lot area, streets and all proposed exterior lighting fixtures; and
         b.   Specifications or details for all proposed lighting fixtures
including photometric data, information about fixtures, color rendering index
(CRI) of all lamps (bulbs) and other descriptive information on the fixtures,
including height of fixtures. Note: Per the city's outdoor lighting
regulations, mercury vapor outdoor lighting is not allowed.
   APPENDIX 1
   SUBDIVISION STREET SPECIFICATIONS
 Minimum
            Minimum
Street Type ROW     Base And Surface1                             Curb Sidewalk
Industrial  80 feet 10 inch base, 3 inch asphalt or 6 inch base,  Yes  0 sides
                    8 inch concrete
Commercial  60 feet 10 inch base, 3 inch asphalt or 4 inch base,  Yes  2 sides
                    8 inch concrete
Arterial    66 feet 10 inch base, 3 inch asphalt or 4 inch base,  Yes  1 side
                    8 inch concrete
Collector   50 feet 8 inch base, 3 inch asphalt or 4 inch base, 6 Yes  2 sides
                    inch concrete
Local road2 50 feet 10 inch base, A2 sealcoat or 8 inch base, 3   Yes  2 sides
                    inch asphalt or 4 inch base, 6 inch concrete
Notes:
1. Base greater than 6 inches shall be 4 inches of 3 inch diameter crushed
limestone topped by remaining depth of CA6 limestone. 6 inch base shall consist
solely of CA6 limestone.
2. Local roads outside the city limits shall be built to county or appropriate
township specifications, depending upon the road authority to which the road is
to be dedicated.
 
(Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-3-4: LOT LAYOUT AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Character Of Land; Protection Of Amenities: Land which the city council
finds unsuitable for development because of flooding, poor soils, improper
drainage, steep slopes, land subsidence, previous mining history or other
features which could be harmful to the safety, health or general welfare of the
inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas shall not be
developed until adequate methods of assuring suitable development are approved
by the planning commission and city council. Existing features which would add
value to the development or to the community as a whole such as trees,
watercourses, water bodies, historic places and similar amenities shall be
preserved; and such assets shall be shown on all copies of all submitted plats.
   B.   Lot Arrangement: Lot layout shall be such as to provide each lot with
the minimum lot width standards of the appropriate zoning district of the
current zoning ordinance in effect. Irregular lots, remnant lots, and oversize
lots should be avoided.
   C.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots should only be provided on
corner lots or where the back of a lot fronts an arterial or highway with no
vehicular access. Double frontage lots shall be of appropriate size as to allow
for reasonable construction consistent with all zoning setbacks. Only in
extremely difficult situations, shall triple or quadruple frontage lots be
allowed.
   D.   Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
of the appropriate zoning district of the zoning ordinance in effect at the
time the subdivision plat is approved.
   E.   Lot Drainage: Drainage on individual lots shall be in accordance with
the overall subdivision drainage plan required in subsection
11-3-3E of this chapter.
   F.   Soil Preservation And Erosion Control: Soil preservation and erosion
control plans shall be outlined on the preliminary plat site plans. Final
erosion control and storm water drainage plans shall be shown in the final plat
site plans, shall be designed by a registered engineer, and shall be subject to
city engineer approval in accordance with subsection
11-3-3E of this chapter.
   G.   Water Bodies And Watercourses: All efforts shall be made to preserve
and enhance existing water bodies. No part of a subdivision lot may lie under
the average water level of a water body or watercourse. All construction in and
around water bodies is subject to state and federal flood regulations. (Ord.
2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-3-5: DEDICATED PROPERTY:
The following regulations shall apply to all land and improvements proposed to
be dedicated to the city:
   A.   Parks, playgrounds, and recreation areas.
      1.   The city may require the applicant proposing a subdivision within or
to be annexed to the city to dedicate land to the city, in which case no
requirement shall exceed ten percent (10%) of the gross land area of the
development. Such dedication shall be of suitable character, size, dimension,
topography and access for the appropriate use as determined by the city council
and the planning commission. If such required dedication is deemed too small
for reasonable use, the developer may offer a cash settlement in lieu of a land
offering in an amount acceptable to the city council.
      2.   If a developer is proposing a subdivision outside the city limits,
the developer shall dedicate an amount of open space to the appropriate
township, or to the county, in an amount to be determined by township or county
officials.
   B.   All land and improvements offered for dedication to the city shall be
offered clear and free of all liens, restrictive covenants, and other
encumbrances unless such are deemed reasonable by the city council and the city
attorney. Such land and improvements, upon formal acceptance of dedication in
the form of a resolution by the city, shall be accompanied by a plat of such
land, signed by a professional land surveyor, and drawn to a scale of not less
than fifty feet (50') per inch. Such plat shall show the as built locations and
profiles of all utilities and other improvements and shall show all easements,
rights of way, and other deed exceptions on that land. Additionally, the as
built maps shall include copies of all local, state and federal permits, such
as EPA water main extension permits. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Scope Of Regulations
11-4-2: Cost
11-4-3: Names Of Subdivisions And Streets
11-4-4: Use Of Preliminary Plat Documents For Final Plat
11-4-5: Construction Requirements
11-4-6: Additional Requirements
11-4-7: Exceptions
11-4-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The following list of requirements applies to all subdivisions applied for
under this title. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-4-2: COST:
The cost of all procedural and physical improvement requirements incurred under
the auspices of this chapter are to be borne solely by the applicant and/or the
owner of the property. The city is not responsible for expenses incurred due to
this chapter and will not reimburse the developer for any portion thereof,
unless it determines that the installation of particular infrastructure would
serve additional properties separate from the development, for which city
council may reimburse a reasonable portion of the cost of that infrastructure.
(Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-4-3: NAMES OF SUBDIVISIONS AND STREETS:
Neither the proposed subdivision name or the proposed street names within that
subdivision shall duplicate the names of existing or platted subdivisions or
streets unless the proposed subdivision or street is an extension of any
existing subdivision or street of the same name. All names are subject to city
council approval. Street signs shall be provided by the developer at each
street intersection affected by the proposed subdivision and at each street
intersection within the development. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-4-4: USE OF PRELIMINARY PLAT DOCUMENTS FOR FINAL PLAT:
If no major changes or revisions are necessary, the documents required for
preliminary subdivision approval may be used as part of the documents required
for final subdivision approval. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-4-5: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
During construction of all public and lot improvements in all phases of
development of the subdivision, the following requirements shall be met:
   A.   All hazards to life and limb and all attractive nuisances shall be
fenced or continually supervised to the satisfaction of the building official
or city engineer to avoid accidental injury or death. Permanent fencing may be
required by the city engineer, and should be shown on the final plat.
   B.   Appropriate soil preservation and erosion control methods as determined
by the city engineer and the zoning administrator shall be used during all
phases of construction when more than five hundred (500) square feet of earth
will be exposed.
   C.   Debris including downed trees, stones, junk, trash or waste materials
of any sort must be removed prior to issuance of any occupancy permit or full
release of the required performance bond.
   D.   All unpaved areas within the public right of way shall be sodded or
seeded to the satisfaction of the zoning administrator and city engineer. The
developer is responsible for this improvement, which shall be installed prior
to full release of the bond and acceptance of the streets.
   E.   Appropriate permits must be obtained following final subdivision
approval and prior to commencement of any phase of construction. (Ord. 2003-12,
2-10-2004)
11-4-6: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Additional requirements may be stipulated by the city council, including, but
not limited to, annexation, impact fees, and dedication of additional right of
way if the city council deems that the petitioner's action(s) will cause an
immediate or near future burden upon the services or citizens of the city.
(Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
11-4-7: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The requirements outlined in this chapter as part of this title shall
not apply to the following situations:
      1.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land which does not involve any new streets or access, and does
not create any new parcels;
      2.   The conveyance of parcels of land for use as a right of way for
public utilities, railroads, highways or other streets, pipelines or other
public purposes;
      3.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      4.   Conveyances or plats made in accordance with 765 Illinois Compiled
Statutes, the judicial plat act.
   B.   In those instances other than the judicial plat act, a legal
description of the property and a plat shall be prepared by a professional land
surveyor, and shall be submitted to the planning commission for review
according to the zoning ordinance and other pertinent ordinances. If the
requirements of all other applicable ordinances are met, the mayor, city clerk
and zoning administrator shall sign the plat and return it to the surveyor for
recording. If the proposed plat is not in accordance with applicable
regulations, the zoning administrator shall work with the applicant and the
surveyor to correct the deficiencies and other problems, in order to file a
correct and legal plat. (Ord. 2003-12, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 5
LAND/CASH DEDICATION FOR PUBLIC USE
SECTION:
11-5-1: Title
11-5-2: Findings And Purpose
11-5-3: Intent
11-5-4: Applicability
11-5-5: Requirement
11-5-6: Definitions
11-5-7: Administration
11-5-8: Calculations
11-5-9: Land Dedication
11-5-10: Miscellaneous Provisions
11-5-1: TITLE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be known, cited, and referenced as the
LAND/CASH ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF NAUVOO. (Ord. 2009-10, 1-11-2011)
11-5-2: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   It is declared to be the policy of the city of Nauvoo that the
provision of various public facilities required to serve new development is
subject to the control of the city in accordance with the city's ordinances and
comprehensive plan for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical
development of the city.
   B.   New development causes and imposes increased and excessive demands upon
public facilities that are specifically and uniquely attributable to those
developments. Affected facilities include the public school district and the
park district.
   C.   Planning projections indicate that such development shall continue and
shall place ever increasing demands on the city, the school district, and the
park district.
   D.   Development potential and property values are influenced and affected
by city policy as expressed in the comprehensive plan and as implemented by the
city zoning ordinance, the city subdivision regulations, and the capital
improvement budget.
   E.   To the extent that new development places demands upon public
facilities which are specifically and uniquely attributable to that
development, those demands should be satisfied by requiring that developments
creating the demands pay the cost of meeting the demands.
   F.   The amount of land or cash fees to be required of new development shall
be determined by the proportionate share cost of the additional public
facilities needed to support such development, which shall be identified in the
district's capital improvement program or in a capital improvement budget.
   G.   The city council, after careful consideration and input from the
respective district, hereby finds and declares that the dedication of land and/
or the payment of cash fees required of new development to finance specified
public facilities, the demand for which is created by such development, is in
the best interests of the general welfare of the city and its residents, is
equitable, and does not impose an unfair burden on such development. Therefore,
the city council deems it necessary and desirable to adopt this chapter and its
provisions. (Ord. 2009-10, 1-11-2011)
11-5-3: INTENT:
This chapter is intended to require the dedication of land and/or the payment
of cash fees, calculated pursuant to this chapter, at the time of building
permit issuance, unless otherwise agreed to by the respective district. (Ord.
2009-10, 1-11-2011)
11-5-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be uniformly applicable to development which occurs within
the city, with the exception of exempted development, such as the following:
   A.   Development of property for which an equivalent land dedication or cash
fee payment has been made subject to the requirements of a prior ordinance.
   B.   Development of property owned by a public school district, a public
park district, a public library district, or a public fire protection district.
(Ord. 2009-10, 1-11-2011)
11-5-5: REQUIREMENT:
No "building permit" as defined herein shall be issued for a nonexempt
development unless the permit applicant has dedicated land and/or paid the cash
fee imposed by and calculated pursuant to this chapter. Prior to, or concurrent
with, the issuance of a building permit, approval of a site plan, approval of a
final plat of subdivision, or approval of a final planned unit development
(PUD), the city shall calculate, with consultation of the respective district,
the land and/or cash fee for school site and/or park site to serve the
immediate and future needs of the development. Cash payment in lieu of land
dedication, or a combination of both, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, may be required.
An amendment to an approved site plan, final plat of subdivision, final planned
unit development (PUD), or an annexation agreement shall require compliance
with this chapter to the extent that such amendment results in the calculation
of a greater land dedication or cash fee for the school district or the park
district. (Ord. 2009-10, 1-11-2011)
11-5-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of the regulations codified herein, the terms and words used
in this chapter shall be used, interpreted, and defined as follows:
BUILDING PERMIT: The permit required for new construction and building
additions pursuant to the Nauvoo building code. The term "building permit", as
used in this chapter, shall not be deemed to include permits required for
remodeling, for rehabilitation, or for other improvements to an existing
structure, or for rebuilding a damaged or destroyed structure, provided there
are no increases in the number of dwelling units or bedroom counts for
residential development resulting from those changes.
CAPITAL BUDGET: Relates to the portion of the city of Nauvoo annual budget
devoted to funding of capital improvement projects, the portion of the annual
budget of a public school district serving the city of Nauvoo that is devoted
to funding of capital improvement projects, and the portion of the Nauvoo park
district annual budget that is devoted to funding of capital improvement
projects.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT: A project, facility, or piece of equipment with a useful
life in excess of three (3) years.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (CIP): A multiyear program identifying future
capital improvements and indicating planned sources of funding for those
improvements.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan of the city of Nauvoo as recommended
by the plan commission and adopted by the mayor and city council.
COST: The expenditures incurred or estimated to be incurred to fund a capital
improvement project. These costs may include the acquisition of land, site
preparation, construction of infrastructure, construction of improvements,
equipping of facilities; and administrative, architectural, engineering, legal,
and planning expenses incurred in connection with a project.
DEMAND UNIT: A unit associated with a new development that generates the need
for expansion of, or improvement to, public facilities.
DETENTION BASIN: A dry bottom area of land which provides for the temporary
storage of stormwater runoff.
DEVELOPER: The owner of record of land proposed for development or his/her
representative in the development process.
DEVELOPMENT: Any change to improved or unimproved real property, the use of any
principal structure or land, or any other activity that requires the issuance
of a building permit.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE: A special and additional fee imposed at building permit
issuance and calculated based upon the costs of public facilities in proportion
to development creating the need for such facilities.
GROSS ACREAGE: The entire area of a parcel of real property or a building site
expressed in acres or portions of acres.
MAI: The professional designation, "Member, Appraisal Institute", as conferred
by the American Institute Of Real Estate Appraisers.
PARK DISTRICT: Any public park district situated wholly or partially within the
city and providing open space amenities and recreational programs.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A unified development of one or more parcels of
contiguous land in a single ownership or unified control, including two (2) or
more principal buildings or uses, and where the specific requirements of a
given zoning district may be modified if an application is processed and
approved under the PUD procedures of the city's development regulations and
zoning ordinances.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: The cost of a public facility, or capital improvement
project, specifically and uniquely attributable to a new development after the
consideration of the generation of additional demand from the new development.
PUBLIC FACILITY: Any or all of the following facilities to be financed in whole
or in part by cash fees: a) school sites and/or b) park sites.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT: Any change to improved or unimproved real property,
including a principal structure, all or a portion of which is designed or
intended for use as a residence.
RETENTION BASIN: A pond, pool, or basin used for the permanent storage of water
runoff.
SCHOOL DISTRICT: Any public school district situated wholly or partially within
the city and providing elementary, junior high, and high school education.
SERVICE STANDARD: The level of service delivery associated with a public
facility for which a land dedication and/or cash fee shall be required.
SITE PLAN: A document prepared to scale indicating accurately the dimensions
and boundaries of a site and showing the location of all proposed buildings,
structures, uses, and principal site development features for a parcel of land.
SPECIFICALLY AND UNIQUELY ATTRIBUTABLE: An identifiable portion of the need for
additional public facilities or capital improvement projects resulting from a
proposed development.
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS: The adopted ordinance of the city of Nauvoo that
regulates the processes and design standards applicable to the division of, and
development of, land within the city.
WETLAND: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions.
ZONING DISTRICT: A specifically delineated area or district in a municipality
within which uniform regulations and requirements govern the use, placement,
spacing, and size of land and buildings.
ZONING ORDINANCES: The adopted ordinances of the city of Nauvoo which classify
land for use and regulate the use of land within the city. (Ord. 2009-10, 1-11-
2011)
11-5-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   General Procedures For Land Dedication And/Or Cash Fees:
      1.   Calculation Of Land Dedication And/Or Cash Fees: Land dedication or
cash fees established pursuant to this chapter shall be calculated based on the
procedures summarized in this chapter.
      2.   Dedication Of Land: School sites required pursuant to this chapter
shall be dedicated to the Nauvoo-Colusa CUSD no. 325 and to any other
applicable school district in which a development may be constructed. Park
sites required pursuant to this chapter shall be dedicated to the Nauvoo park
district.
      3.   Collection Of Cash Fees:
         a.   Park District: The cash contribution in lieu of, or in addition
to, park and recreation land dedication shall be paid directly to the treasurer
or other designated official of the park district at its administrative office.
The district shall issue a receipt indicating payment amount, date paid, and
name of remitter. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the developer
shall bring that receipt to the city as evidence that the cash fees have been
paid.
         b.   School District: The cash contribution in lieu of, or in addition
to, school sites shall be paid directly to the treasurer or other designated
official of the school district at its administrative office. The district
shall issue a receipt indicating payment amount, date paid, and name of
remitter. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the developer shall bring
that receipt to the city as evidence that the cash fees have been paid.
   B.   Use Of Dedicated Land Or Cash Fees: Dedication of land and/or payment
of cash fees pursuant to this chapter shall be restricted to use solely and
exclusively for financing directly, or as a pledge against bonds, revenue
certificates, and other obligations of indebtedness for the cost of public
facilities.
      1.   Park District: Said funds shall be used by the park district for the
acquisition of park and recreation land which will be available to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the subdivision or development
or for improvements of other existing local park and recreation sites and
facilities which serve such needs.
      2.   School District: Said funds shall be used by the school district for
the acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or future
needs of children from that subdivision or development, or site improvements,
which include school buildings or other infrastructure necessitated and
specifically and uniquely attributed to the subdivision or development.
   C.   Effect Of Land Dedication And Cash Fees On Zoning Ordinance And
Subdivision Regulations: This chapter shall not affect, in any manner, the
permissible use of property, density of development, design, and improvement
standards and requirements, or any other aspect of the development of land or
provision of public improvements subject to the zoning and subdivision and
development control regulations or other regulations of the city, which shall
be operative and remain in full force and effect without limitation with
respect to such development.
   D.   Land Dedication And Cash Fees As Additional And Supplemental
Requirement: Dedication of land and/or payment of cash fees is additional and
supplemental to, and not in substitution of, any other requirements imposed by
the city on the development of land or the issuance of building permits. (Ord.
2009-10, 1-11-2011)
11-5-8: CALCULATIONS:
   A.   Criteria For Determining School Site: The following criteria shall
govern the calculation of school site:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate estimated number of
students to be generated by the residential subdivision or development shall be
the relevant demand unit and shall be directly related to the amount of land
required for a school site. The school site requirement shall be determined by
obtaining the product of the following: a) estimated number of students to be
served in each school classification, divided by the b) maximum recommended
number of students to be served in each such school classification as
established in this chapter, multiplied by the c) recommended number of acres
for a school site of each school classification as established in this chapter.
The product shall be the acres of land deemed to be needed to have sufficient
school site land to serve the estimated increased number of students in each
such school classification. The school site cash fee shall be the dollar amount
equal to the product of the number of acres required for school site times the
fair market value of land per acre established in this chapter.
      2.   School Classification And Size Of School Site: School
classifications and the size of school sites within the city shall be
determined in accordance with the following criteria:
 
School Classification By Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Usable Acreage Of
Grade                    Per Classification         Land Per Each
                                                    Classification
   Grades 0 - 5       600                        15
   Grades 6 - 8       750                        20
   Grades 9 -12       1,000                      60
 
      3.   Location: Where the dedication of land is required, the standards
adopted by the affected school district shall be used as guidelines in locating
sites.
   B.   Criteria For Determining Park Site: The following criteria shall govern
the calculation of park site:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate estimated population
to be generated by the residential subdivision or development shall be the
relevant demand unit, and shall be directly related to the amount of land that
would be required for a park site. The park site requirement shall be
determined by obtaining the product of the following: a) estimated population
to be served by the park system, divided by b) one thousand (1,000) multiplied
by the c) required number of acres of park as established in this chapter. The
product shall be the acres of land deemed needed to have sufficient park site
land to serve the estimated increased population. The park site cash fee shall
be the dollar amount equal to the product of the number of acres required for
park site, times the fair market value of land per acre established in this
chapter.
      2.   Park Site Classification And Acreage Per Population: Park site
classifications and the minimum acres of park site shall be ten (10) acres per
one thousand (1,000) population.
      3.   Location: Where the dedication of land is required, a comprehensive
park district plan and/or appropriate standards adopted by the park district
shall be used as a guideline in locating sites.
   C.   Determination Of Land Value And Distribution Of Cash Fee:
      1.   The land value or cash fee for school site and park site shall be
based on the fair market value of an acre of land in the area improved as
specified in this chapter.
      2.   The land value shall be used in making any calculation in this
chapter unless the subdivider or developer files a written objection to the
land value. In the event a written objection is filed, the subdivider or
developer, at his/her own cost, shall obtain and submit an independent
appraisal from an MAI designated appraiser, indicating the fair market value of
such comparable improved land in the area of the proposed development. Final
determination of the fair market value per acre of such improved land shall be
made by the city council in its sole discretion and based on the information
submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be
submitted to the city council by the school district, the park district, or
others.
   D.   Dwelling Unit Population Formula:
      1.   The calculation of required land or cash fee shall be made in
accordance with the population density factors contained in the "Table Of
Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit (1996)", published by the
Illinois school consulting service.
      2.   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the use of the above table, the subdivider or developer shall obtain and
submit, at his/her own cost, a demographic study showing the estimated
population to be generated from the development; and, in that event, final
determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be
made by the city council, in its sole discretion, based upon such demographic
information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other sources
which may be submitted to the city council by the school district, the park
district, or others.
   E.   Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Park And School Sites: When available land
is inappropriate for park, recreational, or school sites, the city, with
consultation from the respective districts, shall require a cash contribution
in lieu of the land dedication by the subdivider or developer.
   F.   Combination Land Dedication And Cash: There will be situations in
subdivisions or developments when a combination of land dedication and a
contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. The city, with consultation
from the respective districts, shall require both a land dedication and a cash
contribution in the following situations:
      1.   When only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park or school site, that portion of the land within the
subdivision or development that falls within the park or school location shall
be dedicated as a site as stated earlier, and a cash contribution in lieu
thereof shall be required for any additional land that would have been
required.
      2.   When a major part of the local park, recreation, or school site has
already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site, then the remaining portions shall be required
by dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required. (Ord.
2009-10, 1-11-2011)
11-5-9: LAND DEDICATION:
   A.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where a land dedication is required,
and the comprehensive plan or the standards of the city, the school district,
or the park district call for a school site or park site in a particular
development, the land needed beyond the required dedication shall be reserved
by the city in accordance with the Illinois municipal code 1 .
   B.   Combining With Adjoining Development: Where a land dedication is
required and where practical, a school site or park site may be combined, upon
agreement with the respective districts, with dedications from adjoining
developments in order to produce a usable school site or park site.
   C.   Park Site Standards:
      1.   The slope, topography, and geology of the dedicated site, as well as
its surroundings, must be suitable for its intended purpose. The future park
site shall be not less than five (5) acres in area and shall be contiguous in
one location, designed and graded relatively flat (2 to 3 percent slope) with
positive drainage which will allow for the construction of an active park with
facilities such as playground, sitting area, shelter, basketball court,
baseball/soccer fields, bike trail, and parking lots.
      2.   The future park site shall receive a minimum of six inches (6") of
topsoil, fine graded and seeded with cool season turf grass to provide an
acceptable stand of grass. The park district will provide the specifications
for the park development, types and mixes of fertilizer and seed, the standards
for final acceptance of established turf, and any other agreed upon
improvements. The future park site shall be maintained by the developer until
it is acceptable and deeded to the park district.
      3.   The park site shall not be included as part of a stormwater
management system, and it shall be above all known maximum flood levels in the
area. Stormwater detention for the park site shall be accommodated off site in
other detention areas.
      4.   Wetlands, floodplains, detention areas, stormwater retention basins,
and areas of steep slope shall not be accepted as park sites and shall not
serve as a credit toward the required park site.
      5.   If the park district decides it is in the best interests of the
community to take ownership and maintenance (with no credit being given) of an
existing or proposed wetland, the developer may be required to provide three
(3) years of management and maintenance after the initial establishment.
   D.   Park Site Dedication And Improvement Agreement: Prior to or concurrent
with the review of the final plat or PUD, the subdivider or developer shall
enter into a "dedication and improvement agreement" with the park district. A
copy of this approved agreement shall be submitted, by the subdivider or
developer, to the city prior to the recording of the final plat or PUD.
   E.   School Site Standards: The developer shall provide the school district
with the following:
      1.   A phase I environmental study of the site or other appropriate
environmental study.
      2.   A topographical survey and specific boundary outline of the proposed
site topography will be based on a minimum two foot (2') contour interval.
      3.   A plan demonstrating how the site is to be drained with storm sewers
and service by sanitary sewers and water.
      4.   An accurate delineation of adjacent floodplain areas, if any.
      5.   Soil borings from the location in the numbers deemed necessary.
      6.   A report from a competent soils engineer with regard to the
requested soil borings. This report will include an opinion on whether the
soils are capable of supporting a two-story structure (with or without basement
facilities) and whether any special construction techniques will be required
with regard to footings or preparation of the soil foundation.
      7.   A timetable for delivery of the proposed site, to be agreed upon by
the developer and the school district.
For sites donated by the developer under this chapter, the slope, topography,
and geology of the dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable
for school purposes. Grading on sites dedicated for school uses will be
performed according to plans and specifications provided by the school
district. The required stormwater management should be provided by the
developer off site. The school district reserves the right to waive some or all
of the above criteria for improved sites if the district deems them unnecessary
or undesirable for expected future uses of the land.
   F.   School Site Dedication And Improvement Agreement: Prior to or
concurrent with the review of the final plat or PUD, the subdivider or
developer shall enter into a "dedication and improvement agreement" with the
school district. A copy of this approved agreement shall be submitted, by the
subdivider or developer, to the city prior to the recording of the final plat
or PUD.
   G.   Notification Process:
      1.   The city shall recommend that developers meet with and discuss open
space and school needs with both the park and school districts prior to making
a formal plat or plan submittal to the city. The city shall notify both the
school and park districts when a project has been formally submitted to the
city for review. As part of the review process, both the school district and
park district shall be given copies of the applicable plats and plans for their
review and comment. Each district shall respond in writing to the city
identifying their respective needs.
      2.   Prior to review of a plat or plan by the city, each district shall
notify the city in writing of its desire to accept land, cash, or a combination
of land and cash, in fulfillment of the developer's obligation under this
chapter.
   H.   Security For Developer Performance:
      1.   Performance Bond: If the developer is to perform any work in
furtherance of, and attributable to, the land dedication, including, but not
limited to, stormwater maintenance and/or active sporting facility
construction, grading and/or site development, readying the site for utilities,
streets, sidewalks, and/or other improvements, or any work agreed to be
performed by the developer (whether upon the site, or off site), then as
security for the full and faithful performance of said work, the developer
shall provide directly to the school or park district a specific performance
bond (or other acceptable form of financial guarantee, if approved strictly and
solely at the discretion of the school or park district) in an amount and form
sufficient to provide adequate security for the work required by this chapter
and otherwise agreed upon. Performance for the installation of utilities,
stormwater management facilities, curb and gutter, sidewalks, streets, and
other infrastructure required by the city, and already covered by a financial
guarantee to the city, need not be included.
      2.   Direct Payment: In lieu of a performance bond or other acceptable
financial guarantee, and upon agreement with the school or park district, the
developer may make direct payment to the school or park district of an amount
deemed sufficient to complete the expected work. Thereafter, the work will be
performed by the school or park district, and the developer shall be released
from that portion of the work attributed to the dedication.
      3.   Condition Of Final Plat: Said provision of a performance bond or
other acceptable financial guarantee or direct payment, as specified above,
shall be required prior to city approval of the final plat in which the school
or park site is located. Each district accepting land shall provide written
notification to the city that this requirement has been satisfied.
   I.   Conveyance Of Land:
      1.   The subdivider or developer shall convey the lands required under
this chapter to the respective school district or park district within ninety
(90) days after the request by said districts.
      2.   The manner of conveyance shall be by warranty deed, naming the
respective school or park district as the grantee. The deed shall be
accompanied by a commitment for a policy of title insurance as evidence that
the developer holds merchantable title. All title encumbrances deemed
unacceptable by the grantee shall be removed by the developer prior to
submitting the deed and title commitment. Both the deed and title commitment
shall be delivered directly to the office of the school or park district,
whichever is applicable. The developer shall not record any deed of conveyance.
After review of the status of title, the school or park district shall record
the deed or, if title is unacceptable, shall return the deed to the developer
with an explanation of the title defects.
      3.   The developer shall ascertain the pro rata real estate taxes through
the date of delivery of the deed and title commitment policy to the school or
park district. The developer shall make payment in said amount to the school or
park district at the same time that the deed and title commitment policy is
delivered. (Ord. 2009-10, 1-11-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8.
11-5-10: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Refund: If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of park or school
sites is not expended for the purposes set forth in this chapter within ten
(10) years from the date of receipt, then it shall be refunded to the lot owner
or owners of those lots for which the contribution was made, which owner or
owners are determined at the time the date of refund is established. Any
request for a refund shall be made in writing to the respective district.
   B.   Indemnification: Indemnification and hold harmless agreements are
required from all taxing districts receiving land, cash in lieu of land, or a
combination of cash and land per the terms of this chapter and must be provided
prior to the receipt of said donations. (Ord. 2009-10, 1-11-2011)   
 
