NORTHEAST ILLINOIS REGIONAL
COMMUTER RAILROAD CORPORATION (“NIRCRC”)
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Legislation current through NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
10.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
11.   CITIZENS ADVISORY BOARD
CHAPTER 10: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
10.001   Insurance coverage procurement
   
10.002   Retiree medical benefit updates and administration
   
10.003   Authorization to negotiate claims and settle lawsuits
   
10.004   Indemnifying Directors
   
10.005   Adopting Robert’s Rules of Order
Temporary Vacancies
   
10.020   Purpose of acting appointments
   
10.021   Duration of appointment
   
10.022   Compensation for acting employees
   
10.023   Retroactive pay increase
Treasury Signatory Authorization
   
10.035   Authority to sign or endorse
   
10.036   Authority to invest and execute documents; enter agreements
   
10.037   Authority to endorse all instruments
   
10.038   Honoring and charging
   
10.039   Execute documents by any bank
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.001 INSURANCE COVERAGE PROCUREMENT.
   Upon completion of the competitive negotiation process for brokerage
services and upon the written and signed recommendation of the Director of Risk
Management, the Executive Director (“ED”)/Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) is
hereby authorized to procure the necessary insurance coverage for the
protection of Metra and to execute any documents in furtherance thereof.
(Ord. NIRC 11-01, passed 4-15-2011)
§ 10.002 RETIREE MEDICAL BENEFIT UPDATES AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Board of Directors of the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter
Railroad Corporation has determined that the retiree medical benefit should be
updated and annually adjusted.
   (B)   The Chairperson and, by his or her designation, the Executive Director
are hereby authorized and directed to implement and administer the post
retirement medical benefit plan, or other similar or additional retiree medical
plans, and all subsequent amendments to such plans, for Metra non-contract RTA
plan participants.
(Ord. 2000-, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 10.003 AUTHORIZATION TO NEGOTIATE CLAIMS AND SETTLE LAWSUITS.
   (A)   The ED/CEO is authorized to negotiate and settle any claim or lawsuit
on any and all matters in an amount not to exceed $500,000. The ED/CEO is
authorized to sign all documents necessary to effectuate this authority. Any
such settlement must be upon the written recommendation and concurrence of the
General Counsel, the Senior Director of Litigation and Risk Management (“Senior
Director”) and the Director of Risk Management (“Director”).
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, the ED/CEO is authorized to delegate his or
her authority to negotiate and settle claims or lawsuits, as set forth in
subsection (A) above, up to and including $150,000, to the General Counsel. The
General Counsel is authorized to sign all documents necessary to effectuate
this authority. Any such settlement must be upon the written recommendation and
concurrence of the Senior Director and Director.
   (C)   In the event that the ED/CEO delegates authority to the General
Counsel to negotiate and settle claims or lawsuits pursuant to subsection (B)
above, the General Counsel is authorized to delegate up to $25,000 of said
authority to either or both of the Senior Director and Director, including the
authority to sign all documents necessary to effectuate this authority. Any
such settlement must be upon the written recommendation and concurrence of a
claims agent or of another attorney in addition to the Director or Senior
Director.
   (D)   The ED/CEO is authorized to negotiate and/or settle any claim or
lawsuit involving issues that are not primarily monetary in nature. The ED/CEO
is authorized to sign all documents to effectuate this authority. Any such
settlement must be upon the written recommendation and concurrence of the
General Counsel. The ED/CEO is authorized to delegate all or any portion of
this authority to the General Counsel and, in such case, the General Counsel is
authorized to sign all documents to effectuate this authority. Any such
settlement by the General Counsel must be upon the written recommendation and
concurrence of the Senior Director.
(Ord. NIRC 11-02, passed 4-15-2011)
§ 10.004 INDEMNIFYING DIRECTORS.
   (A)   Each Director of the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
Corporation, now or hereafter serving as such, shall be indemnified, held
harmless and defended by the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
Corporation against any and all claims and liabilities to which he or she has
or shall become subject, by reason of serving or having served, as such
Director, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken, omitted or
neglected by him or her as such Director; and the Northeast Illinois Regional
Commuter Railroad Corporation shall defend each such person against any and all
claims, suits or proceedings filed against him or her with respect to the
subject matter of this indemnification provision, whether such claims, suits,
actions or proceedings are rightfully or wrongfully made or filed, provided,
however, that no such person shall be indemnified, held harmless or defended
against any claim or liability arising out of his or her own willful or wanton
misconduct. All references to gender in this section shall be construed to
include both male and female.
   (B)   The right of indemnification hereinabove provided for shall not be
exclusive of any rights to which any Director of the Northeast Illinois
Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation may otherwise be entitled by law.
(Ord. NRC 80-3, passed 3-19-1980)
§ 10.005 ADOPTING ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   The proceedings of the Board of Directors of this Corporation shall be
governed by Robert’s Rules of Order, current edition, provided, however, that
to the extent such rules are inconsistent with any applicable law, such law
shall control such rules.
(Ord. NRC 80-2, passed 3-19-1980)
TEMPORARY VACANCIES
§ 10.020 PURPOSE OF ACTING APPOINTMENTS.
   Acting appointments are intended to be interim measures to address temporary
vacancies:
   (A)   Pending a permanent appointment, in the case of employee separation
and in the case of the establishment of a newly budgeted position; and
   (B)   Pending the return of the permanent employee, in the case of a leave
of absence.
(Ord. NIRC 11-03, passed 4-15-2011)
§ 10.021 DURATION OF APPOINTMENT.
   For those positions which report directly to the ED/CEO, no person may be
appointed in an acting capacity for more than 12 months without prior Board
approval.
(Ord. NIRC 11-03, passed 4-15-2011)
§ 10.022 COMPENSATION FOR ACTING EMPLOYEES.
   Compensation for employees appointed to a particular position in an acting
capacity will not exceed the compensation previously established for that
position.
(Ord. NIRC 11-03, passed 4-15-2011)
§ 10.023 RETROACTIVE PAY INCREASE.
   Retroactive pay increases to compensate employees appointed to an acting
position prior to enactment of this subchapter must be pre-approved by the
Board.
(Ord. NIRC 11-03, passed 4-15-2011)
TREASURY SIGNATORY AUTHORIZATION
§ 10.035 AUTHORITY TO SIGN OR ENDORSE.
   The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter
Railroad Corporation (“Corporation”) hereby authorizes the following persons to
sign, make, draw or endorse on behalf of the Corporation any and all checks,
notes, drafts, bill exchanges or other instruments; to make any payment of
money on behalf of the Corporation; and to withdraw funds on behalf of the
Corporation.
   (A)   With respect to amounts less than $10,000, the Chief Financial Officer
(“CFO”), any Assistant Treasurer or the Director, Treasury (“Director”) are
each individually endowed with the above-mentioned powers. In addition,
execution of instruments for the payment of money or withdrawal of funds may be
made by facsimile signature by the CFO or the Director. Only one signature is
required with respect to such amounts of less than $10,000.
   (B)   With respect to amounts equal to or greater than $10,000, two
signatures are required and signatures must include: either the CFO or the
Director, and either the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”).
The General Counsel or a Deputy Executive Director are hereby endowed with the
above mentioned powers. For purposes of this section only, the CEO and the CFO
may designate, in writing, any other position of the Corporation to make such
transfers and endorse checks.
(Ord. NIRC 11-05, passed 11-11-2011)
§ 10.036 AUTHORITY TO INVEST AND EXECUTE DOCUMENTS; ENTER AGREEMENTS.
   The CFO and the Director each have the individual necessary authority to
invest and execute documents (instructions, wires, transfers and other
instruments) for the transfer of funds to any bank or financial institution
(“bank”) holding Corporation deposits. In addition, the CFO and the Director
each have the individual authority to enter into agreements with any bank on
behalf of the Corporation to open and close accounts with respect to such
deposits, investments and transfers, including agreements protecting any bank
against the consequences of relying on instructions given pursuant to this
subchapter, provided that such bank provides confirmation of such transfer to
the CFO or Director of the Corporation; and, provided further, that all
transactions set forth in this section comply with statutory limitations
regarding investment restrictions, the Corporation’s applicable procurement
regulations and the Corporation’s investment policy.
(Ord. NIRC 11-05, passed 11-11-2011)
§ 10.037 AUTHORITY TO ENDORSE ALL INSTRUMENTS.
   The CFO, Director and any Assistant Treasurer each of the individual
authority to endorse any and all instruments deposited by or on behalf of the
Corporation with any bank for credit, collection or other reasons, whether
payable to the order of the Corporation or any officer or signatory of the
Corporation. The CFO, Director and any Assistant Treasurer each have the
individual authority to identify, approve or guarantee endorsement of any payee
or endorser on any checks or drafts drawn by the Corporation, and to make such
arrangements as may be deemed necessary for cashing checks.
(Ord. NIRC 11-05, passed 11-11-2011)
§ 10.038 HONORING AND CHARGING.
   Financial institutions may honor and charge to the Corporation any
instrument executed with this subchapter.
(Ord. NIRC 11-05, passed 11-11-2011)
§ 10.039 EXECUTE DOCUMENTS BY ANY BANK.
   The CEO of the Corporation is hereby authorized and directed on behalf of
the Corporation to execute and deliver any and all documents required by any
bank in accordance with this subchapter, and the Assistant Secretary is hereby
authorized and directed on behalf of the Corporation to attest any documents
and amendments thereto.
(Ord. NIRC 11-05, passed 11-11-2011)
CHAPTER 11: CITIZENS ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
11.001   Establishment; membership
   
11.002   Reimbursement
§ 11.001 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   In order to elicit the opinions of commuter rail ridership in arriving at
recommendations of the Board of the Regional Transportation Authority and/or
NIRC, there is hereby established a Citizens Advisory Board to the Northeast
Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation, which shall consist of 11
residents of the localities served by the commuter rail system who shall be
appointed by the Board of the NIRC to serve for a period of two years beginning
October 1, 1983, and any additional like terms thereafter. The members of the
Advisory Board shall select one of its number to serve as its Chairperson for
the entire term and shall meet at least once each quarter with the NIRC to
advise it of the impact of the Board’s policies and programs on the communities
it serves and shall make such other recommendations as it deems appropriate.
(Ord. NRC 83-5, passed 9-1-1983)
§ 11.002 REIMBURSEMENT.
   Members of the Advisory Board shall serve without compensation, except that
reimbursement may be made to each member for reasonable expenses incurred in
the performance of duties as a member.
(Ord. NRC 83-5, passed 9-1-1983)
TITLE III: DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   PARTICIPATION
      
32.   CONTRIBUTION, INVESTMENTS AND ALLOCATION
      
33.   SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
      
34.   PLAN DISTRIBUTION
      
35.   ADMINISTRATION AND CONSTRUCTION
      
36.   PLAN-TRUST DECLARATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Adoption
   
30.002   Transfer to trust
   
30.003   Chairperson’s responsibility
   
30.004   Definitions
Establishment and Purpose of the Plan
   
30.015   Purpose of the plan
   
30.016   Establishment of the plan
   
30.017   Previous plan replaced
   
30.018   Eligible plan
   
30.019   Individual account plan
   
30.020   Plan-trust
   
30.021   Exclusive benefit
   
30.022   Deferred compensation as property of employer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The amended and restated Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (the “plan”), incorporated herein this
chapter and
Chapters 31 through
35, is adopted, effective as of the dates set forth therein.
   (B)   The Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation Deferred
Compensation Plan-Trust (the “trust”), incorporated as
Chapter 36, is adopted, effective as of the date set forth herein.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.002 TRANSFER TO TRUST.
   The assets and liabilities of the plan, which are currently considered
assets and liabilities of the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
Corporation, will be transferred to the trust as soon as practicable after the
adoption of the trust, incorporated in
Chapter 36, is adopted, and that the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter
Railroad Corporation act as the trustee of such trust, effective as of the date
set forth therein.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.003 CHAIRPERSON’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Chairperson of the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
Corporation and, at the Chairperson’s designation, the Executive Director of
the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation are hereby
authorized and directed to:
   (A)   Execute the plan and trust, as incorporated herein, such execution to
constitute conclusive evidence of the approval of the plan and trust; and
   (B)   Take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to further carry
out the purposes of the plan and trust, including, but not limited to, adopting
such amendments to the plan and trust as are deemed advisable.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.004 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in the plan, each of the following terms has the meaning
stated or provided by this section. If a term is not defined by this section
and is defined by the Internal Revenue Code or the enabling statute or relevant
investment law, the term has the meaning given by the Internal Revenue Code or
the enabling statute or relevant investment law.
   ACCOUNT.
      (1)   The bookkeeping account (including each sub-account) maintained for
each participant (or beneficiary or alternate payee) which, at all times,
shows: the amount of the participant’s deferred compensation (including any
income or loss attributable to the investment of the participant’s deferred
compensation), any amounts accepted as a transfer under §
32.003, any distributions to the participant and any fees or expenses charged
against the participant’s deferred compensation. ACCOUNT also may refer to each
of the sub-accounts.
      (2)   The ACCOUNT BALANCE is the total amount or value of the account (or
sub-account, as applicable) reduced by any security interest held by the issuer
(s) or by the plan-trustee for an outstanding plan loan and reduced by any
applicable investment fees, charges, expenses and taxes and any plan-trust
fees, charges, expenses and taxes.
      (3)   To the extent that the participant’s deferred compensation is held
in (and distributions and fees or expenses are charged against) an allocated
investment(s), the value of the participant’s ACCOUNT is the value of the
applicable sub-account(s) under the investment(s).
      (4)   To the extent necessary to administer the plan, the Plan
Administrator shall keep a separate sub-account to receive each kind of
contributions (and attributable interest or investment earnings). However, the
Plan Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may combine any sub-accounts
if so doing does not impair the Plan Administrator’s ability to operate this
plan according to its provisions.
      (5)   The participant shall receive (until a retirement distribution
begins) periodic account reports in the form prescribed by the Plan
Administrator.
      (6)   If the participant (or beneficiary) elects more than one
distribution commencement date, the Plan Administrator shall maintain a
separate account with respect to the portion of the ACCOUNT to be applied as of
each distribution commencement date.
      (7)   To the extent required by a plan-approved domestic relations order,
the Plan Administrator shall maintain a separate sub-account for the alternate
payee.
      (8)   If the participant designates more than one beneficiary, upon the
written request of any beneficiary or upon an approved claim payable to any
beneficiary and not all beneficiaries, the Plan Administrator shall maintain a
separate account with respect to the interest of each beneficiary, beginning as
of the next valuation date that occurs after the beneficiary’s request or claim
is received by the Plan Administrator.
      (9)   If a plan-approved domestic relations order applies with respect to
a participant, the Plan Administrator shall maintain a separate ACCOUNT for the
interest of the alternate payee, beginning as of the next valuation date
available after the court order is determined by the Plan Administrator to be a
plan-approved domestic relations order.
      (10)   A participant’s plan ACCOUNT shall be reduced to the extent that
any portion of the participant’s plan ACCOUNT has been paid or set aside for
payment to an alternate payee or to the extent that the employer or the plan-
trustee or the Plan Administrator or the agent otherwise is subject to a
binding judgment, decree or order for the attachment, garnishment or execution
of any portion of the participant’s account or of any distribution therefrom.
The participant shall be deemed to have released the employer and the plan-
trustee and the Plan Administrator and the agent from any claim with respect to
such amounts in any case in which any of them was served with legal process or
otherwise joined in a proceeding relating to such amounts, and the participant
was notified of the pendency of such proceeding, and the participant fails to
obtain an order of the court that relieves the employer and the plan-trustee
and the Plan Administrator and the agent from any obligation to comply with the
judgment, decree or order.
      (11)   Each ACCOUNT statement or confirmation furnished by (or on behalf
of) the Plan Administrator or the plan-trustee is intended as a legally
significant statement of the participant’s deferred compensation. As to each
account statement or confirmation, if, by the date that is 180 days after the
date that the statement or confirmation was mailed or otherwise sent or
delivered, the participant (or beneficiary or alternate payee) has not
delivered a written objection as to the accuracy of the statement, the
accounting reported is then settled and conclusive and an account stated. If an
objection to any account statement or confirmation is withdrawn or is adjusted
to the objector’s satisfaction, the accounting is then settled and conclusive
and an account stated. To the extent that an account statement or confirmation
is an account stated, the Plan Administrator and every party acting under the
instruction of the Plan Administrator is discharged from any liability that
might otherwise arise out of the account statement as fully as if the account
had been settled by an appropriate court proceeding. Without limiting the
comprehensive effect of the above, if an account statement or confirmation
furnished to the alternate payee shows the amount segregated to his or her
separate sub-account under a plan-approved domestic relations order or other
court order if, by the date that is 180 days after the date that the statement
or confirmation was mailed or otherwise sent or delivered, the alternate payee
has not delivered a written objection as to the accuracy of the statement or
the objection is withdrawn or is adjusted to the alternate payee’s
satisfaction, the accounting reported is then settled and conclusive and an
account stated, and shall constitute a release of any obligation under the
court order to segregate or set aside the appropriate amount for the alternate
payee. If a court finds that the application of this subsection (11) or any
part of it is void as against public policy, this definition shall apply to the
extent not so found.
   AGENT.
      (1)   Copeland Associates, Inc., together with its affiliated and
subsidiary corporations, and its successors, and any officers, employees,
representatives or agents of it; or any other person or entity authorized by
the Plan Administrator to perform services with respect to investments held
under this plan or to provide specified recordkeeping and administration
services for certain accounts under the plan.
      (2)   AGENT includes, as appropriate in the context, each licensed
insurance agency, each licensed third party administrator, each registered
securities broker/dealer, each registered transfer agent and each registered
investment adviser that the Plan Administrator appoints or selects (or causes
or permits to be appointed or selected) to perform services regarding any
investment(s) or fund shares held under this plan or otherwise regarding the
plan. However, any person is an AGENT regarding the plan solely according to
the terms of his, her or its written agreement with the Plan Administrator or
with a participant or beneficiary or alternate payee.
      (3)   The AGENT is responsible only for those duties stated by his, her
or its written agreement. The AGENT has all powers necessary to fulfill those
duties.
      (4)   Each employer shall be required to use the AGENT(S) selected by the
employer. For the purposes of relations with any AGENT, including, without
limitation, the making of any contract, written or otherwise, each employer
shall be deemed to have designated the Plan Administrator as his or her AGENT.
      (5)   (a)   Any AGENT (including any officer or representative or
employee or agent of it) shall not be a fiduciary. Any AGENT shall not exercise
any discretionary authority or discretionary control concerning the management
of the plan or the management or disposition of the plan assets. Any AGENT
shall not render investment advice with respect to any money or property of the
plan.
         (b)   For the purpose of subsection (5)(a) above, a registered
investment adviser that provides investment advice to a participant or
beneficiary or alternate payee who has a right of investment direction under
the plan is considered to render investment advice to such individual and is
not considered to render investment advice as to any money or property of the
plan. Any AGENT shall not have any discretionary responsibility in the
administration of the plan. Any AGENT (including any officer or representative
or employee or agent of it) shall not be a Plan Administrator or a plan
representative.
   ALLOCATED INVESTMENT. An investment for which the issuer under the terms of
the investment (and not as a separately agreed service) records individual
accounts with respect to each participant.
   ALTERNATE PAYEE. A person who is or was the spouse of the participant or is
the child of the participant to the extent that such person has rights under a
court order that the Plan Administrator has determined to be a plan-approved
domestic relations order.
   ANNUITY PAYOUT OPTION. A payout option (as defined below) which includes a
provision for payments based, in whole or in part, upon the life of a natural
person.
   ANNUITY STARTING DATE. Solely for the purpose of applying §§
34.080 through
34.086, the distribution commencement date.
   APPLICABLE LIFE EXPECTANCY. Has the meaning, solely for the purpose of §§
34.080 through
34.086, given by §
34.081.
   BENEFICIARY.
      (1)   The person(s), whether natural or non-natural, including, but not
limited to, a trustee or other fiduciary, designated by the participant by a
valid beneficiary designation in his or her participation agreement to receive
any undistributed deferred compensation payable upon or after the participant’s
death (the “primary” beneficiary(s)), or upon or after the primary
beneficiary’s death (the “contingent” or “alternate” beneficiary(s)).
      (2)   The participant’s right to designate his or her BENEFICIARY is
limited by the definition of “beneficiary designation” and by all of the
following provisions.
         (a)   Notwithstanding any beneficiary designation in the participation
agreement or otherwise to the contrary, a person shall not be a BENEFICIARY
unless he or she is living or in existence (and, to the extent that the
BENEFICIARY is entitled to receive deferred compensation as a trustee or other
fiduciary, the person or the entity that the person represents or acts for, is
living or in existence) on the distribution commencement date. Any right of a
BENEFICIARY is strictly personal to that beneficiary and lapses upon his or her
death. Any undistributed deferred compensation that would have been
distributable to a BENEFICIARY if he or she had lived is not distributable to
the BENEFICIARY’S heirs. Upon a BENEFICIARY’S death, any undistributed deferred
compensation with respect to that BENEFICIARY becomes distributable to the
remaining primary beneficiary(s) if any or, if none, to the remaining
contingent beneficiary(s), in each case to be distributable in equal shares to
all living BENEFICIARIES of the applicable primary or contingent beneficiary
class.
         (b)   The participant must designate each BENEFICIARY by name. A
BENEFICIARY(S) cannot be designated by relationship or by class, and any such
attempted beneficiary designation is absolutely void.
         (c)   Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, a change in marriage
(whether statutory or common-law) or family status, including (but not limited
to) a divorce, dissolution, annulment or declaration of non-marriage,
separation, separate maintenance, revocation of a domestic partner
registration, termination or revocation of any marriage or living-together
contract or any other interruption or termination of a spouse or quasi-spouse
relationship, has no effect in any way concerning who is the BENEFICIARY under
the plan.
         (d)   If the participant designates as BENEFICIARY more than one
person, all persons of the same beneficiary designation (“primary” or
“contingent”) have equal shares (per capita and not per stirpes) unless the
participant specifies otherwise.
         (e)   If a participant fails to designate a BENEFICIARY, or if for any
reason (including the absence of a surviving designated BENEFICIARY) the
participant’s beneficiary designation is invalid or ineffective, the person(s)
entitled to the residuary estate of the participant’s estate is (are) the
beneficiary(s), to the extent of the failure or invalid or ineffective
designation, with the applicable share of the plan account divided among those
BENEFICIARIES in the same shares as their shares of the residuary estate. For
the purposes of this definition, the Plan Administrator may rely on an
appropriate court order or the personal representative’s written statement as
to the identity (including name, address and taxpayer identifying number) of
and shares allocable to the persons entitled to such residuary estate.
         (f)   A named BENEFICIARY who feloniously and intentionally kills the
participant or BENEFICIARY is not a beneficiary and is not entitled to any
distribution or any other right under the plan; and any deferred compensation
is payable as though the killer had predeceased the participant or BENEFICIARY.
   BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION.
      (1)   The valid and effective BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION made by the
participant, designating the person(s) (which may be a non-natural person) who
shall be his or her beneficiary(s) entitled to receive any undistributed
deferred compensation.
      (2)   At any time before his or her death, the participant has the right
to designate a beneficiary(s), including a contingent beneficiary(s), subject
to the provisions of the plan. The participant shall have the right to change
his or her BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION at any time, subject to the provisions of
the plan.
      (3)   A BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION must be in writing, on the form(s)
prescribed by the Plan Administrator. A BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION (or change) is
not effective until it is received by the Plan Administrator. Each BENEFICIARY
DESIGNATION completely revokes and cancels any and every previous BENEFICIARY
DESIGNATION.
      (4)   The participant must designate each beneficiary by name. A
beneficiary(s) cannot be designated by relationship or by class, and any such
attempted BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION is absolutely void.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the rule that a participant must designate each
beneficiary by name, if the Plan Administrator, in his or her sole discretion,
finds that a BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION sufficiently describes a trust, that
BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION will be construed as naming the duly appointed and
currently acting trustee of that trust.
      (6)   Any BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION that, in whole or in part, designates
the participant’s estate as beneficiary shall be construed as designating as
beneficiary(s), to the extent of the share of deferred compensation specified
or otherwise provided for the estate, the personal representative of the
participant’s estate.
      (7)   Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, a change in marriage
(whether statutory or common-law) or family status, including (but not limited
to) a divorce, dissolution, annulment or declaration of non-marriage,
separation, separate maintenance, revocation of a domestic partner
registration, termination or revocation of any marriage or living-together
contract or any other interruption or termination of a spouse or quasi-spouse
relationship, has no effect in any way concerning any BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION.
      (8)   Any statement in a BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION referring to the
beneficiary’s relationship to the participant is for convenience or information
only and has no effect in the construction or interpretation of the BENEFICIARY
DESIGNATION.
      (9)   Any statement in a BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION attempting to state or
create a condition or restriction upon the beneficiary’s receipt or enjoyment
of any deferred compensation is invalid and the beneficiary is entitled to the
deferred compensation without regard to any attempted condition or restriction.
      (10)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any BENEFICIARY
DESIGNATION in the participation agreement or any other document or otherwise
(including, but not limited to, any court order), any designation of a
beneficiary cannot be irrevocable and any such designation shall be construed
as a revocable designation of that beneficiary.
      (11)   If the participant designates, as beneficiary, more than one
person, all persons of the same BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION (“primary” or
“contingent”) have equal shares (per capita and not per stirpes) unless the
participant specifies otherwise.
      (12)   A BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION shall be construed to dispose all the
remaining plan account or deferred compensation.
      (13)   Except as otherwise provided by the plan, a BENEFICIARY
DESIGNATION that uses a term or phrase that would have significance in
construing or interpreting a conveyance or a disposition of a decedent’s estate
shall, except as otherwise specified by the participant, be construed or
interpreted according to the Uniform Probate Code (without regard to the
participant’s domicile at the time he or she made the BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION
or the participant’s domicile at the time of his or her death). Likewise, if a
BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION remains ambiguous after applying all provisions and
construction rules stated by this plan and can be resolved by applying the
rules of construction and interpretation of the Uniform Probate Code for
construing a BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION or conveyance, such rules shall apply to
the BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION, except as otherwise provided by the plan. Any
provision of the Uniform Probate Code concerning the effect of divorce or
marital separation shall not apply.
      (14)   After the participant’s death, no person has any right or power or
discretion to change any beneficiary (except to disclaim his, her or its
deferred compensation as permitted by §
34.112), and any such purported provision stated in a BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION
or otherwise is ineffective.
   BUSINESS DAY.
      (1)   Any day on which both the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) is open
for regular trading and the person that is required or permitted to act or that
is entitled to receive notice is (or was) open for regular business at his or
her home office or national office or principal place of business.
      (2)   A BUSINESS DAY ends at 4:00 p.m. New York Time, or, if earlier, the
time that regular trading closes on the NYSE.
      (3)   (a)   As required or permitted by applicable investment law, any
agent may make reasonable rules governing the time of the day after which
investment instructions will be treated as received on the next BUSINESS DAY.
         (b)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of subsection (3)(a)
above, any investment direction that includes an instruction to buy or sell
registered investment company shares that is received after the closing of the
NYSE shall be treated as received on the next BUSINESS DAY.
      (4)   A day that is not a BUSINESS DAY ends at 4:00 p.m. New York Time.
   COMPENSATION.
      (1)   The total wages, salaries, fees and other amounts paid (except as
modified below)
during each plan year to the employee by the employer for personal services
actually rendered in the course of employment with the employer, including
compensation payable as bonuses or as overtime, and excluding any compensation
received in the form of non-taxable fringe benefits. COMPENSATION shall include
any amounts deferred as employee contributions under this plan, and any amounts
of compensation deferred as “elective deferrals” (within the meaning of I.R.C.
§ 402(g)(3) or similar provisions) under I.R.C. § 125, I.R.C. § 401(k) or
I.R.C. § 402(a)(8). COMPENSATION does not include any amount paid as employer-
provided education assistance, notwithstanding that such payment may be taxable
wages to the participant.
      (2)   This definition of COMPENSATION is not intended to control or
affect the construction of the definition of “includible compensation”.
However, for the purposes of computing any contributions required or permitted
under §§
33.001 through
33.009, the re-employed participant’s compensation shall be as provided by §
33.005.
   CONFIRMATION. Has the meaning given by applicable investment law.
   CONTRIBUTIONS.
      (1)   Employee contributions and transfer contributions and (if any)
employer contributions, deferred under the plan according to the provisions of
the plan.
      (2)   CONTRIBUTIONS under the plan shall not be reduced because of the
participant’s attainment of any age.
      (3)   CONTRIBUTIONS shall be made according to the payroll methods of and
at such times as may be determined by the employer, except as otherwise
required by the enabling statute.
   CORRECTIVE DISTRIBUTION.
      (1)   A distribution required or permitted to remedy a potential
violation or correct a violation of any provision of §§
32.001 through
32.009 or under §
35.031.
      (2)   The amounts corrected by a CORRECTIVE DISTRIBUTION are disregarded
for all purposes of the plan, except as otherwise expressly provided by the
plan.
      (3)   A CORRECTIVE DISTRIBUTION cannot be counted as a required
distribution for the purposes of applying the minimum distribution and
incidental benefit requirements of §§
34.080 through
34.086 or otherwise under I.R.C. § 401(a)(9).
   DEATH DISTRIBUTION. Any distribution that does not begin before the death of
the participant.
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
      (1)   The amount of compensation that the participant and the employer
agree to defer according to the provisions of the plan.
      (2)   The amount or value of the participant’s DEFERRED COMPENSATION is
the amount or value of the participant’s account (including any rights
purchased under the account).
      (3)   DEFERRED COMPENSATION may also refer to the right under this plan
of the participant or beneficiary to receive a distribution of all or any
portion of the account.
   DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY. Has the meaning, solely for the purpose of §§
34.080 through
34.086, given by §
34.081.
   DISTRIBUTEE. Any person who receives or but for his, her or its instruction
to the Plan Administrator is entitled to receive a distribution.
   DISTRIBUTION.
      (1)   As appropriate in the context, any kind of DISTRIBUTION or the
particular kind of DISTRIBUTION provided by the plan, as follows:
         (a)   Permitted distribution;
         (b)   Hardship distribution;
         (c)   Retirement distribution (including a transfer distribution); and
         (d)   Death distribution.
      (2)   Any DISTRIBUTION shall be paid as a cash payment(s) or/and as a
transfer of ownership of the investment(s) that is the applicable portion of
the account.
      (3)   Any DISTRIBUTION may be made, in whole or in part, in cash, or by
delivery of an investment(s) (including any annuity or life insurance
contract), fund shares, other securities or other assets or property of any
kind. Any DISTRIBUTION of property other than cash shall be valued at fair
market value as of the date of the DISTRIBUTION.
      (4)   If a payee does not, as a part of his, her or its written claim,
specify that a DISTRIBUTION is to be made in the form of a specified property
(s), any DISTRIBUTION is payable as a cash payment(s).
   DISTRIBUTION CALENDAR YEAR. Has the meaning, solely for the purpose of §§
34.080 through
34.086, given by §
34.081.
   DISTRIBUTION COMMENCEMENT DATE. The date(s) selected by the participant
under §
34.034 or by the beneficiary under §
34.059; or the “default” date that results by operation of §
34.035 or §
34.060 from the distributee’s failure to make such an election.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The first date that the employer accepted a participation
agreement.
   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYER. Any employer that is a state or a political subdivision
of the state or an agency or instrumentality of a state(s) or a political
subdivision(s) and that is an ELIGIBLE EMPLOYER within the meaning of I.R.C. §
457(e)(1)(A).
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   The natural person, whether appointed, elected, salaried or under
contract, or otherwise; who performs services for the employer on a regular
basis as a common-law employee or as an independent contractor and who has
compensation paid by the employer unless the individual is precluded from
participation under the plan by the enabling statute or other state or local
law (including a resolution).
      (2)   The fact that a natural person is or is determined to be an
EMPLOYEE for the purpose of another employee benefit plan (including another
pension plan or retirement plan) or for any other legal purpose shall not be
construed as any inference that the natural person is an eligible employee
under this plan.
      (3)   The Plan Administrator (but not any agent) shall decide all
question of eligibility for participation in the plan, except as otherwise
required by the enabling statute.
      (4)   An EMPLOYEE shall not be excluded from participation in the plan on
the basis of age.
   EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS. Elective deferrals made pursuant to a salary
reduction agreement as specified by a participation agreement.
   EMPLOYER. Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation and any
eligible employer that adopts this plan pursuant to §§
31.001 through
31.004.
   EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS.
      (1)   Those contributions made by the employer that are not employee
contributions, and which the participant could not have elected to receive as
immediate cash compensation or other taxable benefit.
      (2)   The Plan Administrator shall not permit EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS
unless it has received and reasonably relies upon an acceptable written legal
opinion concluding that the employer has legal power under the enabling statute
and all applicable state and local law to make such EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS.
   ENABLING STATUTE. The state statute or similar law that grants the employer
legal authority to maintain this plan.
   FEES. Any fees required or permitted to be charged against the participant’s
(or beneficiary’s or alternate payee’s) plan account, according to (any one or
more of the following): the plan, the plan-trust, the participation agreement,
an investment, an investment advisory agreement, any other writing signed by
the participant (or, after the participant’s death, the beneficiary), any
written notice given by or behalf of the Plan Administrator or the plan-trustee
that is accepted or deemed accepted by the participant (or beneficiary) or any
court order.
   FUND. A registered investment company or an insurance company separate
account or a common trust fund or collective investment fund or group trust or
any similar pooled investment under which the value of the holder’s interest is
calculated according to the number of shares or units held for the holder’s
account.
   HARDSHIP DISTRIBUTION. A distribution under §§
34.015 through
34.017.
   INCLUDIBLE COMPENSATION.
      (1)   The amount of the employee’s compensation that is INCLUDIBLE
COMPENSATION within the meaning of I.R.C. § 457(e)(5) and that is currently
includible in the employee’s gross income. INCLUDIBLE COMPENSATION is
determined without regard to any community property laws.
      (2)   For the purposes of computing any contributions required or
permitted under §§
33.001 through
33.009, the re-employed participant’s compensation shall be as provided by §
33.005 and INCLUDIBLE COMPENSATION shall be determined consistent with such
provision.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE or I.R.C. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, including any regulations or rulings (or other guidance of general
applicability) under the I.R.C. Any reference to regulations is a reference to
Treasury Department regulations under the Internal Revenue Code, unless
otherwise specified. Any reference to a section of the Internal Revenue Code
shall be construed to also refer to any successor provision. Any reference to a
section of Treasury Regulations shall be construed to also refer to any
successor provision of such Treasury Regulations. Any reference to a revenue
ruling or revenue procedure or IRS notice or IRS announcement shall be
construed to also refer to any guidance of general applicability that extends,
amplifies or modifies the revenue ruling or revenue procedure or IRS notice or
IRS announcement.
   INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE or IRS. The Internal Revenue Service, a division of
the Department of the Treasury of the United States and thereby an agency of
the government of the United States, and any related departments, divisions or
offices under the supervision of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United
States.
   INVESTMENT.
      (1)   Any of the following: an annuity contract or custodial account that
satisfies the requirements of I.R.C. § 401(f) and I.R.C. § 457(g)(3); any
annuity contract or life insurance contract that may be held by the plan-
trustee; any fund shares that may be held by the plan-trustee; an interest
under a group trust (as described in Rev. Rul. 81-100) that may be held by the
plan-trustee; or any investment that may be held by the plan-trustee.
      (2)   The plan-trustee shall not hold any INVESTMENT that has provisions
(whether express or incorporated by reference or at law) that would preclude
the correct application of the plan or the plan-trust agreement.
      (3)   Each plan INVESTMENT that is not held under a plan-trust shall meet
the requirements of I.R.C. § 401(f) and I.R.C. § 457(g)(3) and shall be for the
exclusive benefit of participants and their beneficiaries according to the
plan. For any investments not held by a plan-trustee, the Plan Administrator
shall hold all investments in his or her name as Plan Administrator and subject
to the provisions of the plan.
      (4)   The plan-trustee or the Plan Administrator shall maintain (or cause
to be maintained) the indicia of ownership of each INVESTMENT within the United
States, except as otherwise permitted by 29 C.F.R. § 2550.404b-l(b) applied as
if this plan were a plan subject to 29 U.S.C. § 1104(b).
      (5)   All INVESTMENTS to be used under the plan must be specified by the
employer.
      (6)   The provisions of each INVESTMENT (including any provisions stated
by each investment’s and each fund’s prospectus and the statement of additional
information) are to the extent not inconsistent with the plan incorporated in
the plan by reference.
      (7)   An INVESTMENT may also be referred to (in plan documents,
disclosure information and forms) by other terms that are not misleading in the
context.
   INVESTMENT ADVISER.
      (1)   Has the meaning given by § 202(a)(11) of the federal Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. § 80b-2(a)(11)).
      (2)   An agreement to provide investment advice (or the giving of
investment advice) to a participant or beneficiary or alternate payee does not
constitute an INVESTMENT ADVISER as an investment manager or investment adviser
as to the plan or any plan-trust. An agreement to provide investment advice (or
the giving of investment advice) to any fund or to the issuer of any investment
does not constitute an INVESTMENT ADVISER as an investment manager or
investment adviser as to the plan or any plan-trust.
   INVESTMENT LAW. As applicable or relevant in the context, any United States
law or state law relating to banking, insurance, securities, investment
companies, investment advice or commodities trading, including any self-
regulatory organization rules. INVESTMENT LAW includes the Bylaws, Rules of
Fair Practice, Code of Arbitration Procedure and other Rules of the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) and the Bylaws and Rules of
the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (“NYSE”) and each other securities or
commodities exchange, to the extent approved or not disapproved by the SEC.
   INVESTOR.
      (1)   Solely for the purposes of §§
32.020 through
32.034 and solely for convenience of reference, the person that has the duty or
holds a power to give investment direction according to §
32.023.
      (2)   Any reference using the term or word INVESTOR shall not be
construed to constitute any person as an investor regarding any investment or
under any investment law.
   INVOLUNTARY DISTRIBUTION.
      (1)   A distribution that is paid or required to be paid according to §§
34.033 or
34.058.
      (2)   The Plan Administrator shall prescribe a uniform procedure for the
determination and timing of all INVOLUNTARY DISTRIBUTIONS so that all
INVOLUNTARY DISTRIBUTIONS shall be made on a uniform and non-discriminatory
basis and without the exercise of discretion.
   ISSUER.
      (1)   The person who has issued or may issue an investment held regarding
the plan.
      (2)   An ISSUER may be a bank, or an insurance company, or a registered
investment company, or the issuer of any other instrument or indicia of
ownership or beneficial ownership that is held as a plan investment. When
appropriate in the context, the term ISSUER also includes the definition of
ISSUER provided by 15 U.S.C. § 77b(4).
   LIFE EXPECTANCY. Has the meaning, solely for the purpose of §§
34.080 through
34.086, given by §
34.081.
   MDIB ACCOUNT. Has the meaning, solely for the purpose of §§
34.080 through
34.086, given by §
34.081.
   NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE.
      (1)   The age elected by the participant which may not be earlier than
the earliest age at which the participant has the right to retire without the
consent of the employer and to immediately receive unreduced retirement
benefits under the employer’s basic retirement plan and which may not be later
than the later of the participant’s age 70 and one-half, or the date of the
participant’s separation-from-service.
      (2)   If the participant will not become eligible to receive a benefit
under the employer’s basic retirement plan, he or she may elect a NORMAL
RETIREMENT AGE that is not earlier than his or her age 65 and not later than
the later of his or her age 70 and one-half or the date of his or her
separation-from-service.
      (3)   A participant’s election of a NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE is irrevocable
once contributions have been made utilizing the additional limitation under §
32.002.
      (4)   The participant’s NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE does not control his or her
distribution commencement date.
   NOTARIAL OFFICER. A natural person who is authorized to take oaths under the
law of the jurisdiction in which the relevant document is signed.
   PARTICIPANT. The employee (or former employee) who has deferred compensation
under the plan who has not yet received all of the payments of deferred
compensation to which he or she is entitled under the plan.
   PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT.
      (1)   The agreement (in the form prescribed by the Plan Administrator),
as amended from time to time, entered into by and between the participant and
the employer under which the employee elects to participate in the plan, and,
if the participant so elects, agrees to make employee contributions.
      (2)   The PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT shall indicate the amount or percentage
of any employee contributions and the investment(s) elected by the participant,
may designate the participant’s beneficiary(s) and shall refer to the
provisions of the plan.
   PAYOUT OPTION.
      (1)   Any, except as limited below, of the annuity options or other
options for payment that is available under the applicable plan investment(s)
or that is otherwise provided by the Plan Administrator.
      (2)   As to an unallocated investment, the PAYOUT OPTIONS are as
specified by the current written agreement between the Plan Administrator and
the agent.
      (3)   Examples of typical PAYOUT OPTIONS are as follows:
         (a)   A lump-sum payment of cash;
         (b)   A payment (or a series of payments) in cash in the amount
specified by the distributee;
         (c)   A payment(s) in cash of the amount obtained by redeeming the
number of fund shares specified by the distributee;
         (d)   Substantially equal monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual
installment payments in cash, over a period certain not to exceed the
participant’s life expectancy or the joint and last survivor life expectancy of
the participant and his or her designated beneficiary;
         (e)   The application of the participant’s account to the purchase of
a non-transferable immediate or deferred annuity contract;
         (f)   A lump-sum distribution in kind of an annuity contract; and
         (g)   A lump-sum distribution in kind of a life insurance contract.
      (4)   The Plan Administrator shall not permit the use of any payout
option that is based on gender-distinct actuarial tables or that otherwise
unlawfully discriminates against any person.
      (5)   The Plan Administrator shall not permit the participant (or
beneficiary) to elect any payout option that (at the time the distribution
begins or is scheduled to begin) does not satisfy all applicable provisions of
the plan, including (but not limited to) §§
34.080 through
34.086 and any applicable minimum distribution and incidental benefit
requirements. The Plan Administrator shall not permit the participant or
beneficiary to elect any payout option that (at the time the distribution
begins) does not satisfy the provisions of the plan, including all applicable
requirements of I.R.C. § 457(d)(2) and I.R.C. § 401(a)(9).
      (6)   If an investment permits a payout option to be arranged “as
mutually agreed”, any such unspecified payout option, regardless of whether the
payout option is the actuarial equivalent of any other payout option, shall not
be a payout option under the plan unless the issuer offers this payout option
on a uniform and non-discriminatory basis to all participants and beneficiaries
in similar circumstances.
   PERMITTED DISTRIBUTION. A distribution under §§
34.001 and
34.002.
   PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE.
      (1)   The person duly appointed by an order of the court (or of a
registrar or administrator under the court’s supervision) having jurisdiction
over the estate of the participant that grants the person the authority to
receive the property of the deceased participant and to act as the personal
representative of the participant’s probate estate.
      (2)   However, notwithstanding any small estate procedure or any law that
may provide for or permit the succession of an estate by means other than
according to a court order, no distribution is payable (and no deferred
compensation is available) at the instruction of a person who cannot
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Plan Administrator that he, she or it is
the personal representative duly appointed by and under the supervision of the
court.
      (3)   To the extent that there can be no personal representative because
the participant’s probate estate was closed, no distribution is payable (and no
deferred compensation is available) until a claimant obtains an appropriate
court order.
   PLAN.
      (1)   This plan, adopted by or pursuant to a resolution of the employer.
      (2)   The plan includes the plan-trust agreement and, to the extent not
inconsistent with the plan, the prospectus and statement of operation and
statement of additional information of each investment and each fund and the
declaration or other governing instrument of each group trust, each as amended
from time to time, which together with this document constitute the plan of the
employer(s).
   PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER. A court order that is lawfully
directed to this plan and that is served upon the Plan Administrator before the
participant’s distribution commencement date that pursuant to a state domestic
relations law creates or recognizes the existence of the right of an alternate
payee to receive all or a portion of any deferred compensation of a participant
and that meets all of the following requirements.
      (1)   An order shall not be a PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER
unless the Plan Administrator determines that the court order on its face and
without reference to any other document states all of the following.
         (a)   The court order expressly states that it relates to the
provision of child support, alimony or marital property rights to a spouse,
former spouse or child of a participant and is made pursuant to state domestic
relations law.
         (b)   The court order clearly and unambiguously specifies that it
refers to this plan.
         (c)   The court order clearly and unambiguously specifies the name of
the participant’s employer.
         (d)   The court order clearly specifies: the name, mailing address and
taxpayer identifying number of the participant; and the name, mailing address
and taxpayer identifying number of each alternate payee.
         (e)   The court order clearly specifies the amount or percentage, or
the manner in which the amount or percentage is to be determined, of the
participant’s account to be paid to segregated for the separate sub-account of
the alternate payee.
         (f)   The court order expressly states that the alternate payee’s
segregated account shall bear all fees and expenses as though the alternate
payee were a participant.
         (g)   The court order clearly specifies that any distribution to the
alternate payee becomes payable only after the participant’s death or
separation-from-service and only upon the alternate payee’s written claim made
to the Plan Administrator or the agent.
         (h)   The court order clearly specifies that any distribution to any
alternate payee shall be payable only as a lump sum.
         (i)   The court order expressly states that it does not require this
plan to provide any type or form of benefit or any option not otherwise
provided under this plan.
         (j)   The court order expressly states that the order does not require
this plan to provide increased deferred compensation.
         (k)   The court order expressly states that any provision of it that
would have the effect of requiring any distribution to an alternate payee of
deferred compensation that is required to be paid to another person under any
court order is void.
         (l)   The court order expressly states that nothing in the order shall
have any effect concerning any party’s tax treatment, and that nothing in the
order shall direct any person’s tax reporting or withholding.
      (2)   (a)   An order shall not be a PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS
ORDER if it includes any provision that does not relate to this plan.
         (b)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of subsection (2)(a)
above, an order shall not be a PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER if the
order includes any provision relating to any pension plan, retirement plan,
deferred compensation plan, health plan, welfare benefit plan or employee
benefit plan other than this plan.
      (3)   An order shall not be a PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER
unless the order provides for only one alternate payee.
      (4)   An order shall not be a PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER if
the order includes any provision that would require the Plan Administrator to
calculate the amount to be segregated to the alternate payee’s separate sub-
account in a manner not readily calculable by the agent according to his, her
or its currently available records and without regard to any records for any
accounting period that is an account stated or otherwise settled by the
application of the subsection (6) below.
      (5)   An order shall not be a PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER if
the order includes any provision that would permit the alternate payee to
designate any beneficiary for any purpose. However, an order does not fail to
qualify as a PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER because it provides that
any rights not paid before the alternate payee’s death shall be payable to the
duly appointed and then-currently serving personal representative of the
alternate payee’s estate.
      (6)   The Plan Administrator may assume that the alternate payee named by
the court order is a proper payee and need not inquire into whether the person
named is a spouse or former spouse or child of the participant.
   PLAN-TRUST.
      (1)   The legal entity and the legal relationship created by a plan-trust
agreement.
      (2)   Consistent with §
30.021, each trust must be for the exclusive benefit of participants and their
beneficiaries.
   PLAN-TRUST AGREEMENT. The written agreement (or declaration) made by the
employer and the Plan Administrator and the plan-trustee that established a
plan-trust for the purposes of the plan, as amended from time to time.
   PLAN-TRUSTEE.
      (1)   The plan-trustee duly appointed and currently serving under the
plan-trust agreement.
      (2)   (a)   At all times, every PLAN-TRUSTEE shall be a directed trustee
and (except as provided by division (2)(b) below) shall be completely subject
to the direction of the Plan Administrator, or the participant or beneficiary
or alternate payee.
         (b)   The PLAN-TRUSTEE’S only duty is to ensure that all investments,
amounts, property and rights held under the plan-trust are held for the
exclusive benefit of participants and their beneficiaries.
   PLAN ADMINISTRATOR.
      (1)   The employer, including its governing body and the person or group
of officials, officers and employees appointed by or pursuant to a resolution.
      (2)   The PLAN ADMINISTRATOR is responsible for the administration of the
plan.
      (3)   Except as otherwise indicated, any reference to the PLAN
ADMINISTRATOR refers also to the agent to the extent of any service required or
permitted to be performed by the agent.
   PLAN LOAN. A loan under §§
33.020 through
33.028.
   PLAN SPONSOR. The employer that signs this document.
   QUALIFIED MILITARY SERVICE. Has the meaning given by §
33.003.
   REGISTERED INVESTMENT ADVISER. An investment adviser that is registered with
the SEC pursuant to § 203(c) of the federal Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as
amended (15 U.S.C. § 80b-3(c)).
   REQUIRED BEGINNING DATE. Has the meaning given by I.R.C. § 401(a)(9)(C) and
is further described by §
34.081.
   RESOLUTION. Any local law, ordinance, resolution or consent (including a
unanimous written consent) or other action or direction of any kind that is the
act of the governing body of or otherwise the act of the employer or an
employer under the state and local law that applies to it.
   RESTATEMENT DATE.
      (1)   Means January 1, 1997, except as provided below.
      (2)   Section 30.021 is effective for all plan investments and all
amounts, property and rights held on or after August 20, 1996.
      (3)   The provisions of §§
33.001 through
33.009 and those provisions that refer to §§
33.001 through
33.009 to the extent the provisions so refer are effective as stated by §
33.002. (The provisions stated by §§
33.001 through
33.009 apply to re-employments on or after December 12, 1994, except that any
obligation under §§ 33.001 through 33.009 shall not commence until October 13,
1996.)
      (4)   Further, any provision that was required for the plan to have met
the requirements for an eligible deferred compensation plan under I.R.C. § 457
(b) at any time before January 1, 1997 that was not correctly stated by the
plan as then-currently in effect at the relevant time shall be effective for
all such earlier time to the extent necessary for the plan to have met the
requirements for an eligible deferred compensation plan under I.R.C. § 457(b)
for all years beginning on or after the effective date.
   RETIREMENT DISTRIBUTION. Any distribution other than a hardship distribution
or a permitted distribution or a corrective distribution that begins after the
participant’s separation-from-service and before the participant’s death.
   SEPARATION-FROM-SERVICE.
      (1)   The permanent and complete termination of the participant’s
employment with the employer for any reason that is a SEPARATION-FROM-SERVICE
within the meaning of I.R.C. § 402(e)(4)(A)(iii).
      (2)   For a participant who is an independent contractor of the employer,
SEPARATION-FROM- SERVICE is deemed to occur when the participant’s contract
under which services are performed has completely expired and terminated, there
is no foreseeable possibility that the employer will renew the contract or
enter into a new contract for the participant’s services, and it is not
anticipated that the participant will otherwise become an employee of the
employer. An expiration or termination of a contractual relationship that is
not a good faith and complete termination of the contractual relationship
within the meaning of Treasury Reg. § 1.457-2(h)(3) is not a SEPARATION-FROM-
SERVICE.
      (3)   The Plan Administrator is entitled to rely upon the date of
SEPARATION- FROM-SERVICE certified by the employer.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other information, the agent shall not be
deemed to have any knowledge of any SEPARATION-FROM-SERVICE until it receives
the Plan Administrator’s certificate of the fact and date of the participant’s
SEPARATION-FROM-SERVICE.
   SERVICE IN THE UNIFORMED SERVICES. Has the meaning given by §
33.003.
   SHARES. Shares or similar units of interest in a fund.
   SIGNATURE GUARANTEE. A written guarantee of the signature of the person
endorsing a writing that is made by a corporation that is an “eligible
guarantor institution”, as defined by 17 C.F.R § 240.17Ad-15(a)(2), that is not
otherwise excluded under that rule and that is a member of the Securities
Transfer Agent Medallion Program (“STAMP”).
   SPOUSE or SURVIVING SPOUSE.
      (1)   Solely for the purposes of minimum distribution provisions, the
natural person who is the surviving spouse of the participant within the
meaning of I.R.C. § 401(a)(9)(B)(iv).
      (2)   For all purposes under the plan, the Plan Administrator may rely on
any written statement furnished to it, and the Plan Administrator has no duty
to inquire concerning the non-existence or identity of a participant’s SPOUSE
unless the Plan Administrator has received a court order or legal process or a
written notice from any office of the IRS concerning the existence or non-
existence or identity of the participant’s SPOUSE.
   STATE.
      (1)   Includes the meaning given by I.R.C. § 7701(a)(10).
      (2)   For most purposes of the plan, STATE refers to the state or
commonwealth or jurisdiction that is the employer or the state or commonwealth
or jurisdiction of which the employer is a political subdivision or an agency
or instrumentality.
   TAXPAYER IDENTIFYING NUMBER. Has the meaning given by I.R.C. § 6109.
   TRANSFER CONTRIBUTION. Each amount deferred under the plan, pursuant to §
32.003.
   TRANSFER DISTRIBUTION. A retirement distribution paid or payable to the
participant or as a transfer to another eligible deferred compensation plan.
   UNIFORMED SERVICES. Has the meaning given by §
33.003.
   USERRA. Has the meaning given by §
33.003.
   UNALLOCATED INVESTMENT. Any investment that is not an allocated investment.
   USA. The United States of America. To the extent that any provision of the
plan is intended to state a provision that meets a requirement of I.R.C. § 401
(a) or I.R.C. § 501(a), USA shall be construed according to I.R.C. § 7701(a)
(9), except as otherwise required or permitted by the Internal Revenue Code for
the applicable requirement.
   VALUATION CALENDAR YEAR. Has the meaning, solely for the purpose of §§
34.080 through
34.086, given by §
34.081.
   VALUATION DATE.
      (1)   Each date provided for valuing plan accounts as specified by the
Plan Administrator under a written procedure(s).
      (2)   A VALUATION DATE that is a business day ends at the same time that
the business day ends. A VALUATION DATE that is not a business day ends at 4:00
p.m. New York Time.
   VALUATION PERIOD. The time after the close of regular trading (usually 4:00
p.m. New York Time) of a valuation date to the close of the next valuation
date.
   YEAR.
      (1)   The calendar year.
      (2)   For all purposes of administering the plan, the Plan Administrator
shall be entitled to rely on the assumption that a participant’s taxable year
is the calendar year unless the participant gives written notice specifying his
or her taxable year.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
§ 30.015 PURPOSE OF THE PLAN.
   The purpose of the plan is to provide employees with a convenient way to
save for retirement. Under the plan, deferred compensation is held until paid
to the participant or to his or her beneficiary(s), according to the provisions
of the plan. With limited exceptions, a distribution can become available only
after the participant’s death or separation-from-service.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.016 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLAN.
   This document states the provisions of this eligible deferred compensation
plan established and maintained by the employer(s).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.017 PREVIOUS PLAN REPLACED.
   This plan shall amend and restate any similar plan previously in effect. The
restated plan is effective as of the restatement date, except as otherwise
specified by this plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.018 ELIGIBLE PLAN.
   The plan sponsor intends to (but is not obligated to) maintain the plan as a
plan that is an eligible deferred compensation plan within the meaning of
I.R.C. § 457(b).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.019 INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNT PLAN.
   The plan is an individual account plan which provides for an individual
account for each participant and for deferred compensations based solely upon
the amount of contributions, income, dividends, interest, gains (or losses) and
fees and expenses credited to or charged against the participant’s account.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.020 PLAN-TRUST.
   The employer and the Plan Administrator and the plan-trustee have entered
into a plan-trust agreement (or declaration) to establish and maintain a plan-
trust solely for the purposes of the plan. The plan-trustee shall apply for and
shall hold all investments under the plan-trust.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.021 EXCLUSIVE BENEFIT.
   The plan is established for the exclusive benefit of participants and their
beneficiaries. Except as provided by §
30.022, all assets and income of the plan shall be held for the exclusive
benefit of the plan’s participants and their beneficiaries
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 30.022 DEFERRED COMPENSATION AS PROPERTY OF EMPLOYER.
   (A)   For any period before August 20, 1996, and to the extent that §
30.021 is legally ineffective for any period on or after August 20, 1996 and
before January 1, 1999, consistent with I.R.C. § 457(b)(6) prior to amendment
by Pub. Law No. 104-188, all amounts of deferred compensation, all property and
rights purchased with such amounts, including, but not limited to, any
investment or insurance contracts held by the employer under the plan, and any
and all rights under such contracts, and all income attributable to such
amounts, property or rights shall remain until paid to the participant or
beneficiary according to the plan solely the amounts, property and rights of
the employer, without being restricted to the payment of deferred compensation,
and shall remain subject to the claims of the employer’s general creditors.
   (B)   To the extent that amounts, property and rights are the amounts,
property and rights of the employer under subsection (A) above, consistent with
I.R.C. § 457(b)(6), each participant or beneficiary has no vested or secured or
preferred position with respect to any amounts, property or rights held as
deferred compensation, and has no claim against the employer other than as an
unsecured general creditor.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
CHAPTER 31: PARTICIPATION
Section
Participating Employers
   
31.001   Adoption by employer
   
31.002   Participating employer has same provisions
   
31.003   Amendment binding upon all participating employers
   
31.004   No amendment by participating employer
Participation in the Plan
   
31.015   Enrollment
   
31.016   Participation agreement
   
31.017   Application for plan investment
   
31.018   Employee responsible to enroll
   
31.019   Time for contribution to begin
   
31.020   Amendment of participation agreement
   
31.021   Leave of absence
   
31.022   Disability
PARTICIPATING EMPLOYERS
§ 31.001 ADOPTION BY EMPLOYER.
   With the consent of the plan sponsor, any eligible employer may adopt this
plan and be an employer with respect to this plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.002 PARTICIPATING EMPLOYER HAS SAME PROVISIONS.
   Each employer shall adopt the plan, as adopted by the plan sponsor, without
amendment or revision.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.003 AMENDMENT BINDING UPON ALL PARTICIPATING EMPLOYERS.
   Any amendment of the plan by the plan sponsor is effective and binding upon
all employers, without requiring their consent.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.004 NO AMENDMENT BY PARTICIPATING EMPLOYER.
   An employer (other than the plan sponsor) has no power to amend the plan in
any way, except to discontinue making further contributions under this plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN
§ 31.015 ENROLLMENT.
   An employee becomes a participant only by completing and executing and
delivering all of the instruments or forms required by the Plan Administrator.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.016 PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   If the employee elects to make employee basic contributions or
employee voluntary contributions, the participant shall enroll in the plan by
executing a participation agreement (on the form prescribed by the Plan
Administrator) to make those employee contributions. When entering into or
amending his or her participation agreement, the participant must agree to
defer the minimum amount that is required under each plan investment indicated
by the participant’s participation agreement and must agree to defer not more
than the maximum amount provided by §§
32.001 through
32.009.
   (B)   If the employee does not elect to make employee contributions, as a
condition to becoming a participant eligible to share in employer non-elective
contributions, the participant shall enroll in the plan by executing a
participation agreement (on the form prescribed by the Plan Administrator). A
participation agreement is required even if the participant’s deferred
compensation is attributable solely to employer contributions without employee
contributions.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.017 APPLICATION FOR PLAN INVESTMENT.
   As a condition to participation in the plan, the participant shall complete
the application form(s) provided by the issuer(s) of any plan investment(s) in
order for the appropriate contract(s) or certificate(s) to be issued or record
established.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.018 EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBLE TO ENROLL.
   (A)   If the employee fails to complete and execute and deliver any
enrollment forms required according to this subchapter, he or she shall not be
entitled to receive an allocation of any contributions under the plan.
   (B)   The employer or the Plan Administrator shall not be responsible to
notify any employee that he or she has become eligible to participate in the
plan. The employee shall be responsible to know when he or she becomes eligible
to participate in the plan and shall be responsible to take any action
necessary to enroll in the plan. The employer shall not be liable for any
missed contributions.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.019 TIME FOR CONTRIBUTION TO BEGIN.
   Contributions will be deferred for any calendar month only if a
participation agreement providing for the deferral has been entered into before
the beginning of the month.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.020 AMENDMENT OF PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Subject to all of the provisions of the plan, a participant may, at
any time, amend his or her participation agreement to change: the amount of his
or her contributions, his or her investment direction and his or her designated
beneficiary(s).
   (B)   Unless the participation agreement specifies a later effective date, a
change in the amount of contributions shall take effect as of the next
available pay period in the next calendar month. A change in the investment
direction for contributions shall take effect as of the next available pay
period. A change in the beneficiary designation shall take effect when the
participation agreement is accepted by the Plan Administrator or the agent.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.021 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   Unless his or her participation agreement is otherwise amended, if a
participant is absent from work by a leave of absence, contributions under the
plan shall continue to the extent that compensation continues, or the
participation agreement shall remain in effect and contributions shall resume
when the participant returns to work.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 31.022 DISABILITY.
   A disabled participant may make employee contributions during any portion of
the period of his or her disability to the extent that he or she has actual
compensation (not imputed compensation and not disability benefits) from which
to make employee contributions.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
CHAPTER 32: CONTRIBUTION, INVESTMENTS AND ALLOCATION
Section
Contribution Limits
   
32.001   Normal limitation
   
32.002   Catch-up limitation
   
32.003   Acceptance of transfers
   
32.004   Qualified governmental excess benefit arrangement
   
32.005   Corrective distribution for excess deferrals
   
32.006   Designation of excess deferrals
   
32.007   Calculation of allocable income
   
32.008   Amount to be distributed
   
32.009   Plan Administrator not responsible to determine “excess deferrals”
Investment Direction
   
32.020   Participant’s duty of investment direction
   
32.021   Procedure for giving investment direction
   
32.022   Reasonable frequency
   
32.023   Investor
   
32.024   Investment direction must be in writing
   
32.025   Proper person to receive investment direction
   
32.026   Investment cannot avoid distribution commencement date
   
32.027   Plan Administrator not responsible
   
32.028   Investment direction refused
   
32.029   Failure to give investment direction
   
32.030   Investment direction during domestic relations or bankruptcy matter
   
32.031   Expenses of investment direction
   
32.032   Employer relieve from fiduciary responsibility
   
32.033   Employer not responsible for plan investment selection
   
32.034   Employer’s obligation is limited
Allocation Methods
   
32.045   Employee contributions
   
32.046   Employer contributions are discretionary
   
32.047   Plan accounts
   
32.048   Allocation of investment return
   
32.049   No rights created by allocation
CONTRIBUTION LIMITS
§ 32.001 NORMAL LIMITATION.
   The maximum amount deferred for any participant (including any amount that
is treated as deferred under the plan according to I.R.C. § 457(c)(2), but not
including a transfer contribution to the extent provided by §
32.003) and not including any qualified excess benefit arrangement to the
extent provided by §
32.004 for any taxable year of the participant shall not exceed the lesser of
the amount specified by I.R.C. § 457(b)(2) together with I.R.C. § 457(e)(15) or
the percentage specified by I.R.C. § 457(b)(2) (33-1/3%) of the participant’s
includible compensation, except as provided by §
32.002.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.002 CATCH-UP LIMITATION.
   (A)   For one or more of the last three taxable years of the participant
ending before the participant’s normal retirement age, the maximum amount of
deferred compensation is the lesser of: $15,000 or the sum of: the normal
limitation for the taxable year plus the sum of the normal limitation for each
of the “prior taxable years” (as defined below) of the participant commencing
on or after January 1, 1979 less the amount of deferred compensation for each
such prior taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a PRIOR TAXABLE YEAR means a prior
taxable year of the participant that begins on or after January 1, 1979 during
which the participant was eligible to participate in an eligible deferred
compensation plan (according to Treasury Regulations under I.R.C. § 457(b)(3))
and during which deferrals under the plan were subject to a plan ceiling
established under Treasury Regulations § 1.457-2(e)(1).
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a participant’s includible compensation
for the current taxable year is deemed to include any deferred compensation for
the taxable year in excess of the amount permitted under the normal limitation,
and the participant’s includible compensation for any prior taxable year is
deemed to exclude any amount that could have been deferred under the normal
limitation for such prior taxable year.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.003 ACCEPTANCE OF TRANSFERS.
   (A)   The employer shall credit to a participant’s account the amount
transferred from another eligible deferred compensation plan (within the
meaning of I.R.C. § 457(b)).
   (B)   Any transferred amount is not treated as contributions subject to the
limitation of §§
32.001 and
32.002, except for the amount of deferred compensation during the participant’s
taxable year in which the transfer occurred which is treated as deferred
compensation subject to the limitation of §§
32.001 and
32.002.
   (C)   The amount of any deferred compensation under the plan from which the
transfer is made shall be taken into account in computing the catch-up
limitation under §
32.002 to the extent required by §
32.002.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.004 QUALIFIED GOVERNMENTAL EXCESS BENEFIT ARRANGEMENT.
   Consistent with I.R.C. § 457(e)(14), §
32.001 and I.R.C. § 457(c)(2) shall not apply to any qualified excess benefit
arrangement (as defined by I.R.C. § 415(m)(3)), and benefits provided under
such an arrangement shall not be taken into account in determining whether this
plan is an eligible deferred compensation plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.005 CORRECTIVE DISTRIBUTION FOR EXCESS DEFERRALS.
   A corrective distribution for excess elective deferrals shall be paid if the
participant designates (or the participant is deemed to have notified the Plan
Administrator of) an amount of excess deferrals according to §
32.001 and the distribution satisfies §
32.003.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.006 DESIGNATION OF EXCESS DEFERRALS.
   (A)   The participant shall designate excess deferrals by delivering to the
Plan Administrator a written claim in the form prescribed by the Plan
Administrator that certifies and otherwise establishes to the satisfaction of
the Plan Administrator an amount of excess deferrals.
   (B)   If the Plan Administrator finds that the participant has excess
deferrals for the calendar year calculated by taking into account only
contributions under this plan and other plans of the same employer, the
participant is deemed to have notified the Plan Administrator of the excess
deferrals so determined unless the participant certifies that he or she has
received a corrective distribution under another plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.007 CALCULATION OF ALLOCABLE INCOME.
   The income or loss allocable to excess deferrals shall be determined
according to a reasonable method of allocating income or loss. For this
purpose, the method described in Treasury Reg. § 1.402(g)-1(d)(5) is deemed to
be a reasonable method.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.008 AMOUNT TO BE DISTRIBUTED.
   The amount to be distributed as a corrective distribution shall be the
amount designated (or deemed designated) under §
32.006 together with any allocable income determined under §
32.007.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.009 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR NOT RESPONSIBLE TO DETERMINE “EXCESS DEFERRALS”.
   The Plan Administrator shall not be responsible to determine the amount of
any excess deferrals.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
INVESTMENT DIRECTION
§ 32.020 PARTICIPANT’S DUTY OF INVESTMENT DIRECTION.
   Each participant (and, when applicable, each beneficiary or alternate payee)
shall subject to the requirements of any applicable investment law and of any
procedures established by the Plan Administrator and the agent, direct the
investment of his, her or its account(s).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.021 PROCEDURE FOR GIVING INVESTMENT DIRECTION.
   The investor must give his, her or its investment direction according to the
provisions of this plan, including any procedure or form required by the Plan
Administrator or the agent or the issuer.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.022 REASONABLE FREQUENCY.
   The Plan Administrator and each investment may, but only on a uniform and
consistent basis, impose reasonable restrictions on the frequency with which
all investors may give investment directions. In addition to (and not by
limitation upon) such restrictions, the investor cannot give more than one
investment direction in any valuation period and the latest investment
direction in a valuation period cancels all earlier inconsistent investment
directions in that valuation period.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.023 INVESTOR.
   During the participant’s life, the participant shall direct the investment
of his or her account. During the participant’s disability or incompetence, the
person who has authority to act for the participant under a power-of-attorney
accepted by the Plan Administrator or the agent according to §
35.037 or, if there is no such agent, the person that is the duly appointed and
currently serving conservator or guardian of the estate of the participant
shall direct the investment of the participant’s account. After the
participant’s death, the beneficiary shall direct the investment of his, her or
its account or each beneficiary shall direct the investment of his, her or its
segregated account. A participant or beneficiary may delegate investment
responsibility for all of his, her or its account to an agent or attorney-in-
fact by giving written notice acceptable to the Plan Administrator and
furnishing a power-of-attorney that is accepted by the Plan Administrator
according to §
35.037. A participant or beneficiary cannot delegate investment responsibility
for part of his, her or its account. Solely for the purposes of this subchapter
and solely for convenience of reference, the person that has the duty or holds
a power to give investment direction is referred to as the “investor”.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.024 INVESTMENT DIRECTION MUST BE IN WRITING.
   Each investment direction shall be in writing and shall not be proper unless
the writing is signed by the investor. Except as otherwise specified by the
agent’s investment direction procedure, “writing” and “signed” shall be
construed according to §
35.045, subject to any security procedures required by the agent or the issuer.
Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, a signed writing
includes, to the extent permitted by the applicable investment(s), a proper
telephone communication made in the manner prescribed by the agent and the
issuer.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.025 PROPER PERSON TO RECEIVE INVESTMENT DIRECTION.
   (A)   The investor shall give his, her or its investment direction only to
the Plan Administrator, except as otherwise permitted by a uniform written
procedure adopted by the Plan Administrator. Notwithstanding that this plan’s
procedure may permit the recordkeeper to receive investment instructions, any
investment direction is not effective unless and until actually delivered in
good form to and accepted by the Plan Administrator.
   (B)   For any investment, notwithstanding any service or assistance that may
be provided by the agent, only the issuer(s) has authority to accept an
investment direction and any direction is effective only when and as so
received. Nothing in this plan or otherwise shall be construed to enlarge or
augment any legal obligation of the agent.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.026 INVESTMENT CANNOT AVOID DISTRIBUTION COMMENCEMENT DATE.
   Notwithstanding any provision or privilege for investment direction, if,
consistent with §
34.034, the participant or if, consistent with §
34.059, the beneficiary has selected more than one distribution commencement
date, he, she or it is not permitted to make any investment transfer from any
portion or investment of his, her or its account to any other portion or
investment of his, her or its account that has a different distribution
commencement date.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.027 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR NOT RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   Except as provided by §
32.028, the Plan Administrator must accept every proper investment direction
and the Plan Administrator is obligated to comply with such proper investment
direction. Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, the Plan
Administrator is not under any duty to question any investment direction of a
participant or beneficiary (or his, her or its agent), or to make any
investment recommendations, or to provide to any person any investment advice
or investment education, or to provide any investment information.
   (B)   If the employer or the Plan Administrator or the plan-trustee provides
any investment education or investment information or investment advice of any
kind, the employer and the Plan Administrator and the plan-trustee shall not be
liable for any loss or liability arising out of such investment education or
investment information or investment advice.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.028 INVESTMENT DIRECTION REFUSED.
   The Plan Administrator or any person may decline to implement any investment
direction if:
   (A)   The person receiving the investment direction knows (or a court order
has determined) that the investor is legally incompetent;
   (B)   The Plan Administrator determines (under a reasonable written
procedure uniformly applied to all investors) that the investment direction
could result in a loss in excess of the applicable account (or sub-account)
balance;
   (C)   The investment direction would be contrary to this plan;
   (D)   The investment direction would be contrary to a court order, even if
the court order is not a plan-approved domestic relations order;
   (E)   The investment direction would jeopardize the plan’s (or the plan-
trust’s) tax qualified status;
   (F)   The investment direction would generate income that would be taxable
to the plan-trust;
   (G)   The investment direction would result in a prohibited transaction
within the meaning of I.R.C. § 503; or
   (H)   The investment direction would cause the plan-trustee or any person to
maintain the indicia of ownership of an investment or any assets of the plan
outside the jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States or outside
the jurisdiction specified by the plan-trust agreement.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.029 FAILURE TO GIVE INVESTMENT DIRECTION.
   If, at any time, a participant or beneficiary fails to exercise his, her or
its duty of investment direction (or an investment direction is refused), the
Plan Administrator shall, to the extent of the failure of proper investment
direction, cause the account or applicable sub-account(s) or segregated account
to be invested as specified under a written procedure adopted by the Plan
Administrator.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.030 INVESTMENT DIRECTION DURING DOMESTIC RELATIONS OR BANKRUPTCY MATTER.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any notice to the Plan Administrator (or to any other
person dealing with or performing services regarding the plan) that a domestic
relations order or bankruptcy demand or court order or similar court order
relating to the plan is or may be presented, the participant shall continue to
exercise his or her duty of investment direction as required by the plan unless
a final court order expressly provides otherwise and the Plan Administrator
does not challenge, contest or appeal the court order.
   (B)   If such a court order provides for an alternate payee (or any person
other than the participant) to have a right of investment direction under the
plan, the Plan Administrator shall give effect to that court order to the
extent permitted by the plan, and the Plan Administrator may give effect to
that court order even contrary to the plan if the Plan Administrator does not
challenge, contest or appeal the court order.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.031 EXPENSES OF INVESTMENT DIRECTION.
   (A)   The Plan Administrator may charge the participant’s or beneficiary’s
account for the expenses of executing his, her or its investment direction. If
such expenses are so charged, the Plan Administrator shall maintain reasonable
procedures to inform investors that such charges are made and to inform each
investor as to the actual expenses charged to the participant’s or
beneficiary’s individual account.
   (B)   If the execution of an investment direction would incur an unusual
charge or any tax under the investment or otherwise under applicable law, any
person receiving the investment direction may (but is not required to) require
the investor to acknowledge in writing that he, she or it understands each
charge or tax and how the charge or tax is calculated or determined.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.032 EMPLOYER RELIEVE FROM FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY.
   To the extent of the participant’s or beneficiary’s investment direction,
the employer and the Plan Administrator and the plan-trustee and the agent and
each issuer and each person performing services regarding the plan is relieved
of any fiduciary responsibility and every kind of liability, and is not
responsible for or liable for any damage or loss or expense or other claim
which may arise from that participant’s or beneficiary’s investment direction
or exercise of control (or from that participant’s or beneficiary’s failure to
exercise his, her or its duty of investment direction and control).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.033 EMPLOYER NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR PLAN INVESTMENT SELECTION.
   Except as otherwise required by the enabling statute, none of the employer
and each employer and the Plan Administrator has or had any responsibility and
shall not have any liability relating to the selection of plan investments.
Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, the employer is not
liable for losses or damages arising out of: any action in approving or
purchasing any plan investment(s), any bankruptcy or insolvency or impairment
or liquidation or rehabilitation or supervision of any issuer(s) and any other
impairment of any issuer’s ability to meet its obligations or the performance
of any plan investments.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.034 EMPLOYER’S OBLIGATION IS LIMITED.
   The plan-trustee’s or the employer’s obligation to pay deferred compensation
shall not exceed the actual amount or value of the participant’s account.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
ALLOCATION METHODS
§ 32.045 EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Each employee may elect to defer a portion of his or her compensation as
employee contributions, subject to all limitations of the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.046 EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS ARE DISCRETIONARY.
   This section applies only if employer contributions are permitted by the
enabling statute. All employer contributions under this plan are discretionary
and the employer contributions made (if any) for any year shall be as declared
by each employer. All employer contributions shall be allocated as specified by
the employer.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.047 PLAN ACCOUNTS.
   The Plan Administrator shall keep (or cause to be kept) the account for each
participant (or beneficiary).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.048 ALLOCATION OF INVESTMENT RETURN.
   (A)   To the extent that an account is held under an allocated investment
(as defined below), all income, gains, losses, other elements of investment
return or contract value and expenses shall be allocated as provided by the
investment.
   (B)   To the extent that an account is held under an unallocated investment,
all income, gains, losses, other elements of investment return or contract
value and expenses shall be allocated as provided by a written procedure
adopted by the Plan Administrator, which may be an agreement between the Plan
Administrator and the agent.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 32.049 NO RIGHTS CREATED BY ALLOCATION.
   Any allocation of contributions or investment earnings to any account shall
not cause the participant to have any right, title or interest in any assets of
the plan, except as expressly provided by the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
CHAPTER 33: SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
Section
Re-Employment after Uniformed Service
   
33.001   Protection of persons who serve in uniformed service
   
33.002   Effective dates
   
33.003   Definitions
   
33.004   Service crediting
   
33.005   Compensation
   
33.006   Non-elective employer contributions
   
33.007   Matching employer contributions
   
33.008   Employee contributions
   
33.009   Plan loan repayment
Plan Loan
   
33.020   Availability of plan loan
   
33.021   Plan loan must be available to all
   
33.022   Plan loan provisions
   
33.023   Plan loan must be adequately secured
   
33.024   Plan loan must bear a reasonable rate of interest
   
33.025   Plan loan limit
   
33.026   Plan loan repayment period
   
33.027   Plan loan amortization
   
33.028   Other provisions
Plan-Approved Domestic Relations Order
   
33.040   QDRO procedures
   
33.041   Determination as to order’s status
   
33.042   Investment direction during domestic relations matter
   
33.043   Giving effect to a plan-approved domestic relations order
   
33.044   Domestic relations proceeding
RE-EMPLOYMENT AFTER UNIFORMED SERVICE
§ 33.001 PROTECTION OF PERSONS WHO SERVE IN UNIFORMED SERVICE.
   (A)   To the extent required by 38 U.S.C. § 4318, a person who is a member
of, applies to be a member of, has performed, applies to perform or has an
obligation to perform service in a Uniformed Service shall not be denied any
deferred compensation or right under this plan on the basis of such membership,
performance of service, application for service or obligation.
   (B)   Consistent with all provisions of USERRA, any provision of this
subchapter and any other right under the plan arising out of or related to re-
employment after service in the Uniformed Services does not apply unless and
until: the person is eligible for re-employment under 38 U.S.C. § 4304
(honorable discharge), the person applied for re-employment in compliance with
38 U.S.C. § 4312 and the participant or employee furnishes to the Plan
Administrator satisfactory documentation concerning the service in the
Uniformed Services, 38 U.S.C. § 4312(e)(3)(B).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.002 EFFECTIVE DATES.
   Consistent with USERRA § 8, the provisions of 38 U.S.C. Chapter 43, as in
effect on the day before the date of enactment of USERRA, apply to re-
employments before December 12, 1994. Consistent with USERRA § 8, the
provisions stated in this subchapter apply to re-employments on or after
December 12, 1994, except that any obligation under this subchapter shall not
commence until October 13, 1996.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   QUALIFIED MILITARY SERVICE. Consistent with I.R.C. § 414(u)(5), any service
in the Uniformed Services (as defined below) if the individual is entitled to
re-employment rights under USERRA with respect to such service.
   SERVICE IN THE UNIFORMED SERVICES. Consistent with 38 U.S.C. § 4303(13), the
performance of duty on a voluntary or involuntary basis in a Uniformed Service
under competent authority and includes active duty, active duty for training,
initial active duty for training, inactive duty training, full-time National
Guard duty and a period for which a person is absent from a position of
employment for the purpose of an examination to determine the fitness of the
person to perform any such duty.
   UNIFORMED SERVICE. Consistent with 38 U.S.C. § 4303(16), any one or more of
the Armed Forces, the Army National Guard or the Air National Guard when
engaged in active duty for training or inactive duty training or full-time
National Guard duty, the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service or any
other category of persons designated by the President of the United States in
time of war or emergency.
   USERRA. The Uniformed Services Employment and Re-Employment Rights Act of
1994 (Public Law No. 103-353) (October 13, 1994) codified at 38 US.C. §§ 4301
et seq.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.004 SERVICE CREDITING.
   (A)   Consistent with 38 U.S.C. § 4318(a)(2)(A) and I.R.C. § 414(u)(8)(A), a
person re-employed under 38 U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq. shall be treated as not
having incurred a break-in-service by reason of such person’s period(s) of
qualified military service.
   (B)   Consistent with 38 U.S.C. § 4318(a)(2)(B) and I.R.C. § 414(u)(8)(B),
upon re-employment under 38 U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq., each period of qualified
military service shall constitute service under this plan for the purpose of
determining the non-forfeitability of the participant’s accrued benefits under
this plan and for the purpose of determining the accrual of benefits under this
plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.005 COMPENSATION.
   Consistent with 38 U.S.C. § 4318(b)(3) and I.R.C. § 414(u)(7) and I.R.C. §
457(e)(5), for the purposes of computing any contributions required or
permitted under this subchapter, the re-employed participant’s compensation
during the period of qualified military service shall be either the
compensation the participant would have received during such period if the
participant were not in qualified military service, determined based on the
rate of pay the participant would have received from the employer but for
absence during the period of qualified military service or, if the compensation
the participant would have received during the period of absence for qualified
military service was not reasonably certain, the participant’s average
compensation from the employer during the 12-month period (or, if shorter, the
entire period of employment) immediately preceding the qualified military
service.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.006 NON-ELECTIVE EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Consistent with 38 U.S.C. § 4318(b)(1) and I.R.C. § 414(u), if a person is
re-employed under 38 U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq., with respect to the period(s) of
service in the Uniformed Services, the employer shall pay (if it has not
already done so) and the Plan Administrator shall allocate to the re-employed
participant’s account any employer non-elective contribution for the
participant in the amount (without investment income or earnings of any kind)
that would have been allocated to the participant’s account if the participant
had been actively at work for the employer.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.007 MATCHING EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Consistent with 38 U.S.C. § 4318(b)(2), if a person is re-employed under 38
U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq. and makes employee contributions as permitted by §
33.008, with respect to the period(s) of service in the Uniformed Services, the
employer shall pay (if it has not already done so) and the Plan Administrator
shall allocate to the re-employed participant’s account any employer matching
contribution for the participant in the amount (without investment income or
earnings of any kind) that would have been allocated to the participant’s
account if the participant had been actively at work for the employer to the
extent that the re-employed participant makes payment to the plan for employee
contributions. Consistent with I.R.C. § 414(u)(2)(A)(ii), the employer has no
obligation to pay the matching contribution until and its obligation is only to
the extent that the re-employed participant pays his or her employee
contribution.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.008 EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Consistent with 38 U.S.C. § 4318(b)(2) and I.R.C. § 414(u)(2), if a person
is re-employed under 38 U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq., with respect to the period(s)
of service in the Uniformed Services, the participant may pay (if he or she has
not already done so) and the Plan Administrator then shall allocate to the re-
employed participant’s account any employee contributions in the amount
required or any amount permitted that would have been required or permitted to
be made and then allocated to the participant’s account if the participant had
been actively at work for the employer. No such payment shall exceed the amount
the re-employed person would have been permitted to contribute had the person
remained continuously employed by the employer throughout his or her service in
the Uniformed Services. Consistent with I.R.C. § 414(u)(2)(A)(i), any such
payment to the plan may be made during the period beginning with the date of
re-employment and whose duration is the lesser of five years or three times the
period of the re-employed person’s service in the Uniformed Services.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.009 PLAN LOAN REPAYMENT.
   To the extent permitted by I.R.C. § 414(u)(4), a plan loan may suspend the
participant’s repayment obligation for any part of the period during which the
participant performs service in the uniformed services, even if such service is
not qualified military service.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
PLAN LOAN
§ 33.020 AVAILABILITY OF PLAN LOAN.
   When made available by the issuer or by the Plan Administrator, a
participant (but not a beneficiary or alternate payee) may apply for and
receive a plan loan secured by a portion of his or her plan account if the loan
satisfies all of the applicable requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.021 PLAN LOAN MUST BE AVAILABLE TO ALL.
   Plan loans shall be made available without regard to any person’s race,
color, religion, sex (or gender), sexual or affectional preference or
orientation, age, national origin (ancestry) or any other factor to the extent
that such consideration would result in discrimination prohibited by applicable
state or local law. The person making or authorizing any plan may (but is not
required to) include the applicant’s creditworthiness and financial need.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.022 PLAN LOAN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   When made available by the issuer, plan loans are made available
solely according to the provisions of the issuer’s written contract.
   (B)   When made available by the Plan Administrator, plan loans are made
available solely according to the provisions of the written procedure specified
by the Plan Administrator or the agent, and each such written procedure is
incorporated in and made a part of the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.023 PLAN LOAN MUST BE ADEQUATELY SECURED.
   (A)   A plan loan shall not be made unless the plan loan is adequately
secured.
   (B)   A participant’s account may be used as security for the plan loan to
the extent of the issuer’s or the plan-trustee’s ability (consistent with the
provisions of the plan) to satisfy the participant’s outstanding obligation in
the event of default.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.024 PLAN LOAN MUST BEAR A REASONABLE RATE OF INTEREST.
   To the extent required by I.R.C. § 72(p), a plan loan shall not be made
unless the plan loan bears a reasonable rate of interest.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.025 PLAN LOAN LIMIT.
   Consistent with I.R.C. § 72(p)(A), a plan loan shall not be made to the
extent that the plan loan (when added to the outstanding balance of all other
plan loans and all plan loans under all qualified plans of the employer and all
affiliated employers) would exceed the lesser of $50,000, reduced by the excess
(if any) of the highest outstanding loan balance during the one-year period
ending on the day before the date on which the plan loan is made, over the
outstanding loan balance on the date on which the plan loan is made; or the
greater of one-half of the present value of the participant’s non-forfeitable
accrued benefit (under this plan and all qualified plans of the employer and
all affiliated employers), or $10,000; or would otherwise exceed any limit
under I.R.C. § 72(p)(2)(A) or under I.R.C. § 457(b) and (g).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.026 PLAN LOAN REPAYMENT PERIOD.
   (A)   Consistent with I.R.C. § 72(P)(B), a plan loan shall not be made
unless the loan, by its terms, is required to be repaid within five years
unless the loan is used to acquire the participant’s principal residence.
   (B)   To the extent permitted by I.R.C. § 414(u)(4), a plan loan may suspend
the participant’s repayment obligation for any part of the period during which
the participant performs service in the uniformed services, even if such
service is not qualified military service.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.027 PLAN LOAN AMORTIZATION.
   Consistent with I.R.C. § 72(p), a plan loan shall not be made unless the
loan requires substantially level amortization (with payments not less
frequently than quarterly) over the term of the loan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.028 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   The Plan Administrator shall make such reasonable rules, requirements and
provisions as the Plan Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may find
necessary or desirable to ensure that all plan loans meet the requirements of
I.R.C. § 72(p) and that the use of plan loans is consistent with all the
purposes and provisions of the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER
§ 33.040 QDRO PROCEDURES.
   The Plan Administrator may (but is not required to) establish written
procedures for determining whether an order directed to the plan is a plan-
approved domestic relations order.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.041 DETERMINATION AS TO ORDER’S STATUS.
   The Plan Administrator shall make a determination on each final court order
directed to the plan as to whether the order is a plan-approved domestic
relations order. The Plan Administrator may delay the commencement of his or
her consideration of any order until the later of the date that is 30 days
after the date of the order or the date that the Plan Administrator is
satisfied that all rehearing and appeal rights with respect to the order have
expired.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.042 INVESTMENT DIRECTION DURING DOMESTIC RELATIONS MATTER.
   Notwithstanding any notice to the Plan Administrator (or to any other person
dealing with or performing services regarding the plan) that a domestic
relations order is or may be presented to be determined as a plan-approved
domestic relations order, the participant shall continue to exercise his or her
duty of investment direction as required by the plan unless a court order
expressly provides otherwise and the Plan Administrator determines that the
court order is a plan-approved domestic relations order. If a plan-approved
domestic relations order provides for an alternate payee (or any person other
than the participant) to have a right of investment direction under the plan,
the Plan Administrator shall give effect to that court order to the extent
permitted by the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.043 GIVING EFFECT TO A PLAN-APPROVED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER.
   If the Plan Administrator determines that an order is a plan-approved
domestic relations order, the Plan Administrator shall instruct the plan-
trustee or the issuer to cause the payment of amounts pursuant to or segregate
a separate sub-account, as provided by (and to prevent any payment or act which
might be inconsistent with) the plan-approved domestic relations order.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 33.044 DOMESTIC RELATIONS PROCEEDING.
   Each of the employer and the plan-trustee and the Plan Administrator and the
agent and each issuer and any person serving under contract or otherwise with
respect to the plan shall not be obligated to incur any cost to defend against
or set aside any judgment, decree or order relating to the division,
attachment, garnishment or execution of or levy upon the participant’s plan
account or any distribution, including (but not limited to) any domestic
relations proceeding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any such person is
joined in any proceeding, the party may take such action as it considers
necessary or appropriate to protect any and all of its legal rights, and the
participant (or beneficiary) shall reimburse all actual fees of lawyers and
legal assistants and expenses reasonably incurred by such party.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
CHAPTER 34: PLAN DISTRIBUTION
Section
Permitted Distribution
   
34.001   Permitted distribution for inactive participant
   
34.002   Permitted distribution paid as a lump sum
Hardship Distribution
   
34.015   Hardship distribution
   
34.016   Definition of unforeseeable emergency
   
34.017   Plan Administrator must determine hardship
Retirement Distribution
   
34.030   Retirement distribution
   
34.031   Transfer of deferred compensation to another eligible employer
   
34.032   Deemed distribution
   
34.033   Involuntary distribution
   
34.034   Election of distribution commencement date
   
34.035   Default distribution commencement date
   
34.036   Election to defer distribution commencement date
   
34.037   Election of payout option
   
34.038   Default payout option
   
34.039   Recalculation of life expectancy
   
34.040   Minimum distribution
Death Distribution
   
34.055   Death distribution
   
34.056   Continuing retirement distribution after death
   
34.057   Deemed distribution
   
34.058   Involuntary distribution
   
34.059   Election of distribution commencement date
   
34.060   Default distribution commencement date
   
34.061   Election of payout option
   
34.062   Default payout option
   
34.063   Recalculation of life expectancy
   
34.064   Minimum distribution
   
34.065   If the beneficiary is the surviving spouse
   
34.066   If the beneficiary is not the surviving spouse
Minimum Distribution Rules
   
34.080   Minimum distribution rules
   
34.081   Definitions
   
34.082   Distribution to begin by required beginning date
   
34.083   Retirement distribution periods
   
34.084   Amount to be distributed each year
   
34.085   Death distribution
   
34.086   More flexible minimum distribution rules
Administration of Distribution Provisions
   
34.100   Claim for distribution
   
34.101   Time for distribution
   
34.102   Plan Administrator to approve
   
34.103   Payor may rely on apparent entitlement
   
34.104   Instruction to issuer
   
34.105   Delay of payment
   
34.106   Dispute as to proper recipient
   
34.107   Doubt as to proper payee
   
34.108   Distribution to minor beneficiary
   
34.109   Distribution to incompetent participant or beneficiary
   
34.110   Inability to locate payee
   
34.111   Payment to personnel representative
   
34.112   Disclaimer by beneficiary
   
34.113   Receipt and release
PERMITTED DISTRIBUTION
§ 34.001 PERMITTED DISTRIBUTION FOR INACTIVE PARTICIPANT.
   Consistent with I.R.C. § 457(e)(9)(A), a participant (but not a beneficiary
or alternate payee) may elect to receive a permitted distribution if the
participant’s account does not exceed the amount described in I.R.C. § 457(e)
(9)(A) ($3,500) and the participant has not made and the participant’s account
has not received any contributions during the two-year period that ends on the
date of the permitted distribution and the participant has not previously
received any permitted distribution under this plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.002 PERMITTED DISTRIBUTION PAID AS A LUMP SUM.
   A permitted distribution shall be payable only as a lump sum.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
HARDSHIP DISTRIBUTION
§ 34.015 HARDSHIP DISTRIBUTION.
   If, before his or her separation-from-service or after his or her
separation-from-service and after he or she has made an irrevocable election of
his or her distribution commencement date but before his or her distribution
commencement date, the participant has an unforeseeable emergency that is
approved by the Plan Administrator as satisfying §
34.016, the participant (but not a beneficiary or alternate payee) is entitled
to receive a hardship distribution (as a cash lump sum) of the amount
determined by the Plan Administrator to be the amount that is reasonably needed
to satisfy the emergency need.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.016 DEFINITION OF UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   An unforeseeable emergency means a severe financial hardship to the
participant resulting from:
      (1)   A sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the participant;
      (2)   A sudden and unexpected illness or accident of a dependent (as
defined by I.R.C. § 152(a)) of the participant;
      (3)   Loss of the participant’s property due to casualty; or
      (4)   Other similar and extraordinary unforeseeable circumstances arising
as a result of events beyond the control of the participant.
   (B)   A need to send the participant’s child to college or a desire to
purchase a home is not an unforeseeable emergency.
   (C)   A participant’s (or his or her dependent’s) circumstances is not an
unforeseeable emergency and a hardship distribution shall not be paid to the
extent that the financial hardship is or may be relieved:
      (1)   Through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise;
      (2)   By borrowing from commercial sources on reasonable commercial terms
to the extent that this borrowing would not itself cause a severe financial
hardship;
      (3)   By cessation of deferrals under the plan; or
      (4)   By liquidation of the participant’s other assets (including assets
of the participant’s spouse and minor children that are reasonably available to
the participant) to the extent that this liquidation would not itself cause
severe financial hardship.
   (D)   For the purposes of subsection (C)(3)(4) above, the participant’s
resources shall be deemed to include those assets of his or her spouse and
minor children that are reasonably available to the participant; however,
property held for the participant’s child under an irrevocable trust or under a
Uniform Gifts to Minors Act custodianship or Uniform Transfers to Minors Act
custodianship shall not be treated as a resource of the participant.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.017 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR MUST DETERMINE HARDSHIP.
   (A)   The Plan Administrator must determine whether the circumstances of the
participant constitute an unforeseeable emergency within the meaning of §
34.016.
   (B)   Following a uniform procedure, the Plan Administrator’s determination
shall consider any facts or conditions deemed necessary or advisable by the
Plan Administrator, and the participant shall be required to submit any
evidence of his or her circumstances that the Plan Administrator requires: the
determination as to whether the participant’s circumstances are a case of
hardship shall be based on the facts of each case; provided, however, that all
determinations as to hardship shall be uniformly and consistently made
according to the provisions of the plan for all participants in similar
circumstances.
   (C)   The Plan Administrator may require that any statement made as part of
a claim for a hardship distribution be made under penalties of perjury. The
Plan Administrator may require that any statement made as part of a claim for a
hardship distribution be signed in the presence of a notarial officer.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
RETIREMENT DISTRIBUTION
§ 34.030 RETIREMENT DISTRIBUTION.
   Upon his or her separation-from-service, the participant is entitled to
receive his or her account (not earlier than the applicable distribution
commencement date) under any payout option that satisfies the provisions of the
plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.031 TRANSFER OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION TO ANOTHER ELIGIBLE EMPLOYER.
   Consistent with I.R.C. § 457(e)(10), upon his or her separation-from-
service, a participant may elect (in the form prescribed by the Plan
Administrator) to transfer his or her account and his or her rights in and to
the plan to another eligible deferred compensation plan (within the meaning of
I.R.C. § 457(b)), provided that the Plan Administrator is satisfied that the
other plan will accept the transferred amount and obligation.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.032 DEEMED DISTRIBUTION.
   Upon his or her separation-from-service, if the participant’s account is not
more than $0 (as of the date of or the valuation date next following his or her
separation-from-service), the participant shall be deemed to have received a
full retirement distribution.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.033 INVOLUNTARY DISTRIBUTION.
   If so specified by a written procedure adopted by the Plan Administrator,
upon his or her separation-from-service, the participant shall receive an
involuntary distribution if, as of any valuation date after the date of his or
her separation-from-service, his or her account is less than the amount
described in the Plan Administrator’s procedure.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.034 ELECTION OF DISTRIBUTION COMMENCEMENT DATE.
   Not later than 60 days after the date of his or her separation-from-service
(and not earlier than the date of the separation-from-service), the participant
shall irrevocably, except as provided by §
34.036, elect, with respect to all of his or her account or to each portion of
his or her account that is attributable to each investment, to defer payment of
his or her deferred compensation until a fixed future time (the “distribution
commencement date”) that is consistent with the provisions of the elected
payout option and that is at least 75 days after the date that the election is
made and that is consistent with the requirements of §
34.036.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.035 DEFAULT DISTRIBUTION COMMENCEMENT DATE.
   If the participant does not so elect, the participant shall receive payment
(according to the “default” payout option provided by §
 34.038) on the first business day of the calendar month that commences not
earlier than 90 days and not later than 120 days after the date of the
participant’s separation- from-service, or the earlier date that is necessary
to satisfy the requirements of §
34.040.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.036 ELECTION TO DEFER DISTRIBUTION COMMENCEMENT DATE.
   Consistent with I.R.C. § 457(e)(9)(B), if the participant has elected (or is
deemed to have elected) a distribution commencement date, the participant may
elect a later distribution commencement date if the participant has not made
any previous election under this sentence.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.037 ELECTION OF PAYOUT OPTION.
   Not later than 60 days before the distribution commencement date, the
participant shall irrevocably elect a payout option that satisfies the
requirements of §
34.040.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.038 DEFAULT PAYOUT OPTION.
   If the participant does not so elect, the distribution shall be paid as a
cash lump sum of the amount or cash value of all investments held for the
participant’s account.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.039 RECALCULATION OF LIFE EXPECTANCY.
   At the time prescribed for the election of his or her payout option, the
participant may elect whether or not to recalculate life expectancy(s) to the
extent permitted by regulations under I.R.C. § 401(a)(9)(D). If this election
is not timely made, the participant is deemed to have elected the “default”
method specified by the applicable investment(s) or, if no method is so
specified, that no recalculation shall apply.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.040 MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION.
   Any retirement distribution shall be made according to a payout option that
begins not later than the required beginning date and that provides, according
to I.R.C. § 401(a)(9) and I.R.C. § 457(d)(2), that the following apply.
   (A)   The entire account will be distributed over the lives or over a period
not extending beyond the life expectancy of the participant and his or her
designated beneficiary.
   (B)   The amounts payable with respect to the participant will be paid at
times which are not later than the times required by I.R.C. § 401(a)(9)(G)
(relating to incidental death benefits).
   (C)   Payments over a period of more than one year can only be made (as
required by I.R.C. § 457(d)(2)(C)) in substantially non-increasing amounts paid
not less frequently than annually.
   (D)   Any remaining payments after the death of the participant shall be
paid at least as rapidly as under the method of distribution being used as of
the date of the participant’s death.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
DEATH DISTRIBUTION
§ 34.055 DEATH DISTRIBUTION.
   Upon the participant’s death before a retirement distribution has begun,
each beneficiary is entitled (not earlier than the applicable distribution
commencement date) to receive his, her or its separate account under the
participant’s account under any payout option that satisfies the provisions of
the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.056 CONTINUING RETIREMENT DISTRIBUTION AFTER DEATH.
   If the distribution of the participant’s account has begun under a
retirement distribution and the participant dies before the entire interest has
been distributed according to the terms of the payout option, the remaining
interest shall be distributed according to the terms of the payout option. In
any case, the remaining interest shall be distributed at least as rapidly as
under the payout option or other method of distribution being used as of the
date of the participant’s death.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.057 DEEMED DISTRIBUTION.
   Upon the participant’s death, if the account is not more than $0 (as of the
date of or the valuation date next following his or her separation-from-
service), the beneficiary shall be deemed to have received a full death
distribution.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.058 INVOLUNTARY DISTRIBUTION.
   If so specified by a written procedure adopted by the Plan Administrator,
upon the participant’s death, the beneficiary shall receive an involuntary
distribution if as of any valuation date after the date of the participant’s
death the account is less than the amount described in the Plan Administrator’s
procedure.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.059 ELECTION OF DISTRIBUTION COMMENCEMENT DATE.
   Not later than 60 days after the date of the death (and not earlier than the
date of the death), each beneficiary may irrevocably elect to defer payment,
with respect to all of his, her or its interest or to each portion of his, her
or its interest that is attributable to each investment, until a fixed future
time (the “distribution commencement date”) that is consistent with the
provisions of the elected payout option and that is at least 75 days after the
date that the election is made and that is consistent with the requirements of
§
34.064.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.060 DEFAULT DISTRIBUTION COMMENCEMENT DATE.
   If the beneficiary does not so elect, the participant shall receive payment
(according to the “default” payout option provided by § 34.062) on the first
business day of the calendar month that commences not earlier than 90 days and
not later than 120 days after the date of the death.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.061 ELECTION OF PAYOUT OPTION.
   Not later than 60 days before the distribution commencement date, the
beneficiary shall irrevocably elect a payout option that satisfies the
requirements of §
34.064.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.062 DEFAULT PAYOUT OPTION.
   If the beneficiary does not so elect, the distribution shall be paid as a
cash lump sum.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.063 RECALCULATION OF LIFE EXPECTANCY.
   At the time prescribed for the election of his, her or its payout option,
each beneficiary may elect whether or not to recalculate life expectancy to the
extent permitted by regulations under I.R.C. § 401(a)(9)(D). If this election
is not timely made, the beneficiary is deemed to have elected the “default”
method specified by the applicable investment(s), or if no method is so
specified, that no recalculation shall apply.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.064 MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION.
   Any death distribution shall satisfy the applicable requirement provided
below.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.065 IF THE BENEFICIARY IS THE SURVIVING SPOUSE.
   The death distribution shall begin no later than the required beginning date
(refer to the definition for “required beginning date” in §
34.081), and the entire account shall be distributed, in compliance with I.R.C.
§ 401(a)(9), over the life or over a period not extending beyond the life
expectancy of the spouse.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.066 IF THE BENEFICIARY IS NOT THE SURVIVING SPOUSE.
   The death distribution shall begin no later than the required beginning date
(refer to the definition for “required beginning date” in §
34.081), and the entire account shall be distributed, in compliance with I.R.C.
§ 401(a)(9), over a period not to exceed 15 years and not extending beyond the
life expectancy of the beneficiary.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION RULES
§ 34.080 MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION RULES.
   To the extent required by I.R.C. § 457(d)(2) and I.R.C. § 401(a)(9), after
the required beginning date, each distribution must satisfy the provisions of
this subchapter. These provisions take precedence over any inconsistent
provision of the plan other than §
34.110. The provisions of this subchapter apply to calendar years beginning
after December 31, 1986, except as otherwise specified below.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICABLE LIFE EXPECTANCY.
      (1)   For a retirement distribution, the following apply.
         (a)   Unless the participant elects that recalculation not apply or
that recalculation apply only to one life of a joint and last survivor life
expectancy, life expectancy as so recalculated each calendar year.
         (b)   If the participant elects that recalculation not apply as to a
measuring life, the applicable life expectancy is the life expectancy (or joint
and last survivor life expectancy) calculated using the attained age of the
participant or of the designated beneficiary or of the participant and the
designated beneficiary as of his, her or their birthday(s) in the applicable
calendar year reduced by one for each calendar year which has elapsed since the
date the life expectancy was first calculated.
         (c)   To the extent that the participant elects that recalculation not
apply, the applicable calendar year is the first distribution calendar year. To
the extent that recalculation is elected or otherwise applies, the applicable
calendar year is the first distribution calendar year and each succeeding
calendar year. If annuity payments commence according to §
35.083 before the required beginning date, the applicable calendar year is the
year of purchase.
      (2)   For a death distribution, the following applies.
         (a)   Unless the beneficiary elects otherwise, the life expectancy (or
joint and last survivor life expectancy) calculated using the attained age of
the designated beneficiary as of his or her birthday in the applicable calendar
year reduced by one for each calendar year which has elapsed since the date the
life expectancy was first calculated.
         (b)   If the beneficiary elects recalculation of life expectancy, the
applicable life expectancy is the life expectancy as so recalculated.
         (c)   The applicable calendar year shall be the first distribution
calendar year, and if life expectancy is being recalculated, each succeeding
distribution calendar year. If distribution is in the form of an immediate
annuity purchased (with the participant’s account) after the participant’s
death, the applicable calendar year is the year of purchase.
   DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.
      (1)   The beneficiary, unless the Plan Administrator determines that the
beneficiary is not a DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY within the meaning of Treasury Reg.
§ 1.40 1(a)(9)-1D.
      (2)   If a DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY is a trust or trustee, for purposes of
making any determination based upon life expectancy (including, but not limited
to, a determination of applicable life expectancy), DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY
refers to the natural person having a beneficial interest in the trust who has
the shortest life expectancy at the time that the determination is made. For
all other purposes, including (but not limited to) the exercise of any rights
or powers under the plan and the receipt of any distribution, beneficiary and
designated beneficiary refer to the trustee.
   DISTRIBUTION CALENDAR YEAR. A calendar year for which a minimum distribution
is required.
      (1)   Retirement distribution. For a distribution that begins before the
participant’s death, the first distribution calendar year is the calendar year
immediately preceding the calendar year that contains the participant’s
required beginning date.
      (2)   Death distribution. For a distribution that begins after the
participant’s death, the first distribution calendar year is the calendar year
in which distributions are required to begin according to §
35.084.
   LIFE EXPECTANCY. The life expectancy or joint and last survivor life
expectancy computed by use of the expected return multiples in (IRS) Table V or
Table VI under Treasury Reg. § 1.72-9 or under any other method permitted by
Treasury Regulations under I.R.C. § 401(a)(9).
      (1)   For a retirement distribution, the participant may elect whether or
not to recalculate life expectancy (or any measuring life or element of it) to
the extent permitted by I.R.C. § 401(a)(9)(D). The life expectancy of a non-
spouse beneficiary cannot be recalculated.
      (2)   For a death distribution, each spouse beneficiary may elect whether
or not to recalculate his or her life expectancy to the extent permitted by
I.R.C. § 401(a)(9)(D). The life expectancy of a non-spouse beneficiary cannot
be recalculated.
      (3)   Any election concerning whether or not to recalculate life
expectancy (or any measuring life or element of it) is irrevocable and applies
to all subsequent years.
      (4)   This election must be made not later than the date that is 90 days
before the required beginning date. As to a retirement distribution, if this
election is not timely made, a participant is deemed to have elected that
recalculation of the participant’s life expectancy apply and that recalculation
of his or her spouse’s life expectancy not apply. As to a death distribution,
if this election is not timely made, the spouse beneficiary is deemed to have
elected that recalculation not apply.
MDIB ACCOUNT.
      (1)   For the purpose of calculating a required minimum distribution, the
participant’s account (or the beneficiary’s segregated account) as of the last
valuation date (normally December 31) in the valuation calendar year increased
by the amount of any contributions allocated to the account after the valuation
date but as of a date in the valuation calendar year and decreased by the
amount of any distributions made from the account after the valuation date but
as of a date in the valuation calendar year.
      (2)   Solely for the purpose of this definition, if any portion of the
minimum distribution for the first distribution calendar year is made in the
second distribution calendar year not later than the required beginning date,
the amount of that minimum distribution shall be treated as if it had been made
in the first distribution calendar year.
   REQUIRED BEGINNING DATE. Consistent with the requirements of I.R.C. § 401(a)
(9)(C), the applicable date provided by the appropriate subsection below or the
other date required or any other date permitted under I.R.C. § 401(a)(9).
      (1)   For a retirement distribution. The REQUIRED BEGINNING DATE for a
retirement distribution is April 1 of the calendar year following the later of
the calendar year during which the participant attains age 70 and one-half or
the calendar year in which the participant retires.
      (2)   For a death distribution if the beneficiary is the surviving
spouse. The REQUIRED BEGINNING DATE for a death distribution is the later of
December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year during
which the participant’s death occurred, and December 31 of the calendar year
during which the participant would have attained age 70 and one-half.
      (3)   For a death distribution if the beneficiary is not the surviving
spouse. The required beginning date for a death distribution is December 31 of
the calendar year immediately following the calendar year during which the
participant’s death occurs.
   VALUATION CALENDAR YEAR. The calendar year immediately preceding the
distribution calendar year.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.082 DISTRIBUTION TO BEGIN BY REQUIRED BEGINNING DATE.
   The participant’s entire account must be distributed or begin to be
distributed no later than the participant’s required beginning date.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.083 RETIREMENT DISTRIBUTION PERIODS.
   As of the first distribution calendar year, any retirement distribution that
is not paid as a lump-sum may be payable only over one of (or a combination of)
the following periods:
   (A)   The life of the participant;
   (B)   The life of the participant and a designated beneficiary;
   (C)   A period certain not extending beyond the life expectancy of the
participant; and
   (D)   A period certain not extending beyond the life expectancy of the
participant and his or her designated beneficiary.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.084 AMOUNT TO BE DISTRIBUTED EACH YEAR.
   (A)   If a participant’s account is to be distributed over a period certain
(and not as an annuity), the amount required to be distributed for each
calendar year, beginning with the distribution(s) for the first distribution
calendar year, must equal at least the quotient obtained by dividing the
participant’s MDIB account by the applicable life expectancy.
   (B)   For each calendar year beginning after December 31, 1988, the amount
to be distributed each year, beginning with any distribution(s) for the first
distribution calendar year, shall be not less than the quotient obtained by
dividing the participant’s MDIB account by the lesser of the applicable life
expectancy or, if the participant spouse is not the designated beneficiary, the
applicable divisor from the table stated under Treasury Reg. § 1.401(a)(9)-2/
Q&A-4. Any distribution after the participant’s death shall be distributed
using the applicable life expectancy under subsection (A) above without regard
to Treasury Reg. § 1.401(a)(9)-2.
   (C)   The minimum distribution required for the participant’s first
distribution calendar year must be made on or before the participant’s required
beginning date. The minimum distribution required for other calendar years,
including the minimum distribution for the distribution calendar year during
which the participant’s required beginning date occurs, must be made not later
than December 31 of that distribution calendar year.
   (D)   To the extent that all or a portion of the participant’s account is
distributed in the form of an annuity purchased from an insurance company,
distributions under the annuity contract shall be made according to I.R.C. §
401(a)(9), including applicable Treasury Regulations under I.R.C. § 401(a)(9).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.085 DEATH DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   If the participant dies before a retirement distribution begins,
unless the Plan Administrator receives a timely election for the beneficiary to
receive distributions as permitted below, the Plan Administrator shall pay (or
cause to be paid) to each beneficiary who has not made a timely election a
lump-sum distribution of the applicable segregated portion of the participant’s
account not later than December 31 of the calendar year that includes the fifth
anniversary of the participant’s death.
   (B)   If any portion of the participant’s account is payable to a designated
beneficiary, each designated beneficiary may elect that his, her or its
distribution be made over the life or over a period certain not greater than
the life expectancy of the designated beneficiary if that distribution begins
not later than December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the
calendar year during which the participant died.
   (C)   If a designated beneficiary is the participant’s surviving spouse, as
to that designated beneficiary, the required beginning date is not earlier than
the later of December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the
calendar year during which the participant died and December 31 of the calendar
year during which the participant would have attained age 70 and one-half.
   (D)   Each designated beneficiary must elect his, her or its payout option
not later than the earlier of December 31 of the calendar year for which a
distribution would be required under this section, or December 31 of the
calendar year that includes the fifth anniversary of the date of the
participant’s death.
   (E)   If a designated beneficiary fails to elect a payout option (or if the
plan administrator finds that a beneficiary is not a designated beneficiary),
the plan administrator shall pay (or cause to be paid) the participant’s
account (or the designated beneficiary’s applicable sub-account) as a lump-sum
not later than December 31 of the calendar year that includes the fifth
anniversary of the participant’s death.
   (F)   For the purposes of this section, if the surviving spouse dies after
the participant but before a distribution to that spouse begins, the provisions
of this section, other than subsection (C) above, shall be applied as if the
surviving spouse were the participant.
   (G)   For the purposes of this section, any amount paid to a child of the
participant is treated as if it had been paid to the surviving spouse if the
amount becomes payable to the surviving spouse when the child reaches the age
of majority.
   (H)   For the purposes of this subchapter, any distribution that is made
according to this section is considered to begin on the required beginning
date, and any distribution made in the form of an annuity is considered to
begin on the date the distribution actually commences.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.086 MORE FLEXIBLE MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION RULES.
   For convenience, these rules for the minimum distribution and incidental
death benefit requirements of I.R.C. § 401(a)(9) are stated in terms
substantially similar to the list of required modifications (“LRMs”) published
by the IRS for use with plans intended to be qualified under I.R.C. § 401(a).
However, the Plan Administrator must construe the plan to state provisions that
allow participants and beneficiaries the greatest flexibility that can be
permitted under I.R.C. § 457(d)(2) and I.R.C. § 401(a)(9).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
ADMINISTRATION OF DISTRIBUTION PROVISIONS
§ 34.100 CLAIM FOR DISTRIBUTION.
   Any distribution shall be paid only upon a completed and properly executed
written claim made in a form acceptable to the Plan Administrator that states,
under penalties of perjury, all facts and authorizations necessary or
appropriate to the distribution, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   If the distribution is a retirement distribution, appropriate evidence
that the participant has a separation-from-service;
   (B)   If the distribution is a transfer distribution, the distributee’s
instruction as to the name and address of the trustee of the transferee
eligible deferred compensation plan together with any other information that
the Plan Administrator or plan-trustee or issuer reasonably requests;
   (C)   (1)   If the distribution is a death distribution, appropriate
evidence of the participant’s death; and
      (2)   Absent contrary evidence actually known to the Plan Administrator,
an appropriate death certificate or a court order stating that the participant
is found to be absent and presumed dead shall constitute appropriate evidence
of the participant’s death.
   (D)   If the distribution is a hardship distribution, an appropriate
certificate or evidence of the facts constituting the participant’s
unforeseeable emergency;
   (F)   If the participant has a designated beneficiary, the date-of-birth of
the designated beneficiary;
   (G)   If the distribution is in the form of an annuity payout option, the
date of birth of any annuitant designated under the annuity payout option;
   (H)   Whenever required by the Plan Administrator, the date of birth of any
person as relevant to the distribution;
   (I)   (1)   If the account consists of more than one investment, the order
in which any investments are to be charged or liquidated to pay the
distribution; and
      (2)   If the distributee fails to submit proper instructions, the Plan
Administrator may, at his or her discretion, deny the claim or may determine
which plan investment(s) and investment options are to be charged.
   (J)   If the amount of the distribution is greater than a uniform amount
established by the Plan Administrator, appropriate assurance (including a
signature guarantee) that the participant’s or beneficiary’s signature is
genuine; and
   (K)   Any other evidence or information that the Plan Administrator finds is
relevant to administer a provision of the plan in the participant’s or
beneficiary’s and the distributee’s circumstances.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.101 TIME FOR DISTRIBUTION.
   The Plan Administrator may require for payment of any distribution a minimum
advance notice, uniformly determined and consistently applied. In addition to
the above, no payment can be made before the distribution commencement date.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.102 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR TO APPROVE.
   Payments shall not begin until the Plan Administrator has approved the
distribution, and the claim for payment, and the payout option as satisfying
the provisions of the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.103 PAYOR MAY RELY ON APPARENT ENTITLEMENT.
   (A)   The employer and the Plan Administrator and the issuer and the agent
(a “payor”) is not liable for having made a payment under an unclear
beneficiary designation or participation agreement to a person not entitled to
the payment, or for having taken or omitted any other action in good faith
reliance on a person’s apparent entitlement under the plan, before the payor
actually received written notice of a claimed lack of entitlement under this
plan.
   (B)   Any payor of any distribution is not liable for having made a payment
or having transferred an item of property to a beneficiary designated in a
beneficiary designation (or in a similar writing reasonably believed to
constitute a beneficiary designation) who is not entitled to the distribution,
or for having taken any other action in good faith reliance on the
beneficiary’s apparent entitlement under the terms of the beneficiary
designation before the payor received written actual notice alleging the
beneficiary was not entitled to the distribution.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.104 INSTRUCTION TO ISSUER.
   (A)   Any distribution is payable by or on behalf of the plan-trustee or
issuer only upon the plan- trustee’s or issuer’s receipt in good order of the
Plan Administrator’s approval of the distributee’s claim.
   (B)   Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided by the investment
(s), any payment or payout option shall be determined as of the valuation date
requested by the participant or beneficiary or, if later, as of the valuation
date that next follows the issuer’s or plan-trustee’s receipt in good order
(within the meaning of the investment(s) or applicable law) the approved claim.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.105 DELAY OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   The Plan Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may delay
payment of an approved distribution:
      (1)   To receive any necessary information;
      (2)   To permit a valuation of the account;
      (3)   To permit any necessary or appropriate liquidation of assets;
      (4)   If a dispute arises as to the proper payee (refer to § 34.106);
      (5)   If the Plan Administrator has notice of a domestic relations case
or petition that may involve the applicable account;
      (6)   If the Plan Administrator has notice of a bankruptcy case or
petition that may involve the applicable account;
      (7)   If the Plan Administrator has notice of any legal proceeding or
petition that may involve the applicable account;
      (8)   For any reason described elsewhere in this plan; or
      (9)   For any other lawful purpose.
   (B)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, to the extent
that any distribution requires a redemption or transfer of fund shares, the
Plan Administrator shall delay the distribution during any period: when the
NYSE is closed other than for a weekend or a holiday, or when trading on the
NYSE is restricted (as determined by the SEC), or when an emergency exists
making disposal of a fund’s securities or valuation of a fund’s net assets not
reasonably practicable, or when the SEC has required or permitted the
suspension of redemptions or transfers by order, or during any period otherwise
described by § 22(e)(1)-(3) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended
(15 U.S.C. § 80a-22(e)(1)-(3)). Also, the Plan Administrator may delay any
distribution if doing so is necessary or appropriate to avoid exceeding a
fund’s “large transaction amount” requirement that applies to the plan-trust.
   (C)   If the participant received an allocation of employer contributions
for a period that included his or her absence under a federal or state Family
and Medical Leave Act, the Plan Administrator shall delay payment of any
distribution until the Plan Administrator is satisfied that the participant has
returned to work from such absence or that the participant will not or did not
return to work from such absence.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.106 DISPUTE AS TO PROPER RECIPIENT.
   If a dispute arises as to the proper recipient of any payment(s) under the
plan, the Plan Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may instruct the
issuer(s) to withhold payment until the dispute is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction or is settled by the parties concerned.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.107 DOUBT AS TO PROPER PAYEE.
   If the Plan Administrator determines that there is doubt as to the proper
construction of the plan with respect to determining the beneficiary(s) or
other proper payee(s) under the plan, the Plan Administrator shall construe the
plan to state provisions consistent with the Uniform Probate Code applied as
though the interest under the plan were an interest to a commercial annuity
contract, to the extent that any such construction is not inconsistent with any
requirement of I.R.C. § 457(b).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.108 DISTRIBUTION TO MINOR BENEFICIARY.
   (A)   If a distribution is to be made to a minor beneficiary, any payment(s)
may, except to the extent prohibited by applicable law, be paid to a
responsible person according to the following order:
      (1)   As instructed by an appropriate court;
      (2)   To the duly appointed and currently acting guardian or conservator
of the beneficiary;
      (3)   To the custodial parent of the beneficiary;
      (4)   To a responsible adult with whom the beneficiary maintains his or
her residence;
      (5)   To a responsible adult who is a relative of the beneficiary;
      (6)   To a custodian for the beneficiary under the Uniform Transfers to
Minors Act or Uniform Gifts to Minors Act;
      (7)   To the court having jurisdiction over the estate of the
beneficiary; and
      (8)   To any person determined by the Plan Administrator to be a proper
recipient for the beneficiary.
   (B)   This payment shall be in full satisfaction of all claims. The Plan
Administrator has no duty to supervise or inquire into the application of any
amount(s) so paid.
   (C)   If, at the time a distribution begins, the beneficiary is a minor and
the Plan Administrator begins payments to another person under this section,
the Plan Administrator may continue all payments under the distribution to the
other person notwithstanding that the beneficiary may have attained full age
unless the beneficiary files a written claim according to all of the
requirements of the plan, including furnishing satisfactory evidence that he or
she is of full age.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.109 DISTRIBUTION TO INCOMPETENT PARTICIPANT OR BENEFICIARY.
   (A)   If a distribution is to be made to a participant or beneficiary that
the Plan Administrator finds to be unable to manage property effectively for
any reason, including (but not limited to) mental illness, mental deficiency,
physical illness, physical disability, chronic use of drugs, chronic
intoxication, confinement and detention by a foreign power or disappearance,
any payment may be paid according to the terms of the applicable investment(s)
(if any) or according to applicable investment law (if any), or the Plan
Administrator may direct payment(s) according to the following order:
      (1)   As instructed by an appropriate court;
      (2)   To the duly appointed and currently acting legal guardian of the
estate of the participant or beneficiary;
      (3)   To the duly appointed and currently acting conservator of the
participant or beneficiary;
      (4)   To the duly appointed and currently acting attorney-in-fact under a
durable power-of-attorney if the Plan Administrator finds that the power-of-
attorney provides sufficient power to authorize the attorney-in-fact to receive
the deferred compensation;
      (5)   To a responsible adult with whom the participant or beneficiary
maintains his or her residence;
      (6)   To a responsible adult who is a relative of the participant or
beneficiary;
      (7)   To any person determined by the Plan Administrator to be a proper
recipient for the participant or beneficiary; and
      (8)   To the court having jurisdiction over the estate of the participant
or beneficiary.
   (B)   This payment shall be in full satisfaction of all claims. The Plan
Administrator has no duty to supervise or inquire into the application of any
amount(s) so paid.
   (C)   If, at the time a distribution begins, the participant or beneficiary
is an incompetent or incapacitated (as described above) and the Plan
Administrator begins payments to another person under this section, the Plan
Administrator may continue all payments under the distribution to the other
person notwithstanding that the participant or beneficiary may have become
competent or may have been adjudicated as competent, unless the participant or
beneficiary files a written claim according to all of the requirements of the
plan, including furnishing a satisfactory court order that he or she is
competent to manage his or her deferred compensation.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.110 INABILITY TO LOCATE PAYEE.
   If, at a time when a distribution is required to be paid, any distribution
cannot be paid because the payee cannot be located upon reasonable efforts
(including services available from the IRS under Rev. Proc. 94-22 and services
available from the Social Security Administration), the Plan Administrator may
(but is not required to) direct each issuer or the agent to pay the deferred
compensation into an interest-bearing FDIC-insured bank account opened in the
payee’s name, taxpayer identifying number and then-current address of record
according to the plan; and such deposit shall discharge the employer’s
obligation to pay deferred compensation.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.111 PAYMENT TO PERSONNEL REPRESENTATIVE.
   Any payment (or delivery of property) to the duly appointed personal
representative of the participant shall, to the extent of the payment (or
delivery of property), bar recovery by any other person or entity, including
every beneficiary, and shall, to the extent of the payment (or delivery of
property), discharge any obligation under the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.112 DISCLAIMER BY BENEFICIARY.
   Any beneficiary may renounce or disclaim all or any part of any deferred
compensation by filing a written irrevocable disclaimer not later than 31 days
before the distribution begins or any payment is otherwise to be made and
before acceptance of any deferred compensation. An acceptance may be express or
may be inferred from actions or facts and circumstances, including (but not
limited to) those actions described in the Uniform Probate Code as establishing
an inference of acceptance. In addition to any requirements under state law,
the disclaimer is not effective unless the disclaimer describes the deferred
compensation renounced, expressly declares the renunciation and the extent of
it, expressly states the beneficiary’s belief upon reasonably diligent
examination that no creditor of the beneficiary (or, if the beneficiary is an
executor or trustee or guardian or other fiduciary, of any current or
reasonably anticipated beneficiary of the estate or trustee or guardianship or
other fiduciary relationship or entity) would be adversely affected by the
disclaimer, expressly states that the disclaimer is irrevocable, is signed by
the beneficiary, meets all requirements of I.R.C. § 2518 such that the
disclaimer would be treated as effective for federal gift and estate tax
purposes, and otherwise is made in a form that is acceptable to the Plan
Administrator. Notwithstanding any state law that would permit otherwise, if
the beneficiary is a minor or an incapacitated person, any disclaimer cannot
have any effect regarding the plan until the court having jurisdiction of the
minor’s or incapacitated person’s estate authorizes the disclaimer after
finding that it is advisable and will not materially prejudice the rights of
any interested person. Any deferred compensation disclaimed shall be payable as
if the beneficiary who submitted the disclaimer died before the participant.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 34.113 RECEIPT AND RELEASE.
   Any distribution or payment or any agreement to make a payment(s), or any
transfer of deferred compensation to another eligible deferred compensation
plan, shall, to the extent of the distribution or payment(s) or the agreement,
is in full satisfaction of all claims. The Plan Administrator, in his or her
sole discretion, may require any distributee or payee, as a condition precedent
to making or causing to be made any payment(s) or agreement, to execute a
receipt and release.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
CHAPTER 35: ADMINISTRATION AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Plan Administrator
   
35.001   Plan Administrator has full authority
   
35.002   Plan Administrator must decide all matters
   
35.003   Determination to be uniformly made
   
35.004   Plan Administrator is responsible
   
35.005   Information from employer
   
35.006   Plan Administrator may delegate or contract
   
35.007   Plan services
   
35.008   Plan Administrator official may not decide personal benefit
Other Provisions
   
35.020   Anti-alienation
   
35.021   Bankruptcy
   
35.022   Claims procedure
   
35.023   Construction
   
35.024   Dispute resolution
   
35.025   Expenses
   
35.026   Forfeiture
   
35.027   Governing law
   
35.028   Insurance
   
35.029   IRS levy
   
35.030   Medicare or medicaid reimbursement
   
35.031   Mistaken contributions
   
35.032   Necessary information
   
35.033   No contract of employment
   
35.034   No right other than provided by the plan
   
35.035   Notices
   
35.036   Plan is binding
   
35.037   Power-of-attorney
   
35.038   Privacy
   
35.039   Protection of issuers
   
35.040   Relationship to other plans
   
35.041   Restitution and restoration
   
35.042   Service of legal process
   
35.043   Separability
   
35.044   Signature
   
35.045   Signatures and broad acceptance of writings
   
35.046   Signature guarantee
   
35.047   Statute of limitations
   
35.048   Translations
   
35.049   Unclaimed property
   
35.050   Unemployment compensation
   
35.051   Venue
Amendments
   
35.065   Employer’s right to amend the plan
   
35.066   Amendment cannot change exclusive benefit
   
35.067   Amendment cannot provide any cutback
   
35.068   Retroactive effect
   
35.069   Merger or consolidation
Construction
   
35.080   Construction
   
35.081   Construction as an eligible deferred compensation plan
   
35.082   Construction with enabling statute
   
35.083   Construction of statutes and regulations
   
35.084   Construction of words and phrases
   
35.085   Construction by reference to model laws
   
35.086   Investment law
   
35.087   Employment laws
   
35.088   United States constitution and state constitution
PLAN ADMINISTRATOR
§ 35.001 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR HAS FULL AUTHORITY.
   The Plan Administrator has full and complete authority and discretion to
control and manage the operation of and shall decide all matters under the
plan. The Plan Administrator has any and all powers as may be necessary or
advisable to discharge his or her duties under the plan, and has complete
discretionary authority to decide all matters and questions under the plan. The
Plan Administrator does not have any duties concerning the selection of
investments.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.002 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR MUST DECIDE ALL MATTERS.
   (A)   The Plan Administrator must decide all matters under the plan. The
discretionary decisions of the Plan Administrator are final, binding and
conclusive on all interested persons for all purposes.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any collective
bargaining agreement, any determination under or arising out of the plan is not
subject to any arbitration procedure of any kind, and the Plan Administrator’s
decision is final.
   (C)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, the Plan
Administrator’s discretionary decisions may include, but shall not be limited
to, any decision as to: whether a natural person is an employee, whether an
employee belongs to a particular employment classification, whether an employee
is an eligible employee, the amount of a participant’s compensation, the amount
of contributions to be made, whether an amount of contributions exceeds the
limits prescribed by the plan, whether a court order shall be recognized,
whether a participant (or any other person) has established the presence or
absence of a spouse, whether a payout option is an annuity payout option,
whether a participant has incurred an unforeseeable emergency, whether a
participant has a separation-from-service, whether a beneficiary designation is
valid or effective, who is the proper beneficiary, whether a participant or
beneficiary is a minor or is of full age, whether a participant or beneficiary
is incompetent, the person who is a proper recipient for a participant or
beneficiary who is a minor or an incompetent, whether any power-of-attorney is
effective and acceptable to act with respect to the plan, whether a signature
guarantee is required and whether a signature guarantee is acceptable for any
purpose under the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.003 DETERMINATION TO BE UNIFORMLY MADE.
   To the extent necessary to avoid discrimination prohibited by any employment
law, any determination or decision required or permitted to be made for the
purposes of the plan by the Plan Administrator shall be uniformly and
consistently made according to reasonable procedures established and maintained
by the Plan Administrator.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.004 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR IS RESPONSIBLE.
   The Plan Administrator is responsible for performing all duties required for
the operation of the plan, and is responsible for supervising the performance
of any other persons who may assist in the performance of the Plan
Administrator’s responsibilities.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.005 INFORMATION FROM EMPLOYER.
   To enable the Plan Administrator to perform his or her responsibilities, the
employer(s) shall promptly provide to the Plan Administrator complete and
accurate information on any matter that is required by the Plan Administrator
in order to make any decision or determination under the plan. The Plan
Administrator shall rely upon this information as supplied by the employer and
shall have no duty or responsibility to verify this information.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.006 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR MAY DELEGATE OR CONTRACT.
   Except as prohibited by the enabling statute or other state or local law,
the Plan Administrator may, except when expressly prohibited by this plan,
delegate any of his or her duties to any employer, or to any officers,
employees or agents of any kind. Except as prohibited by the enabling statute
or other state or local law, the Plan Administrator may, except when expressly
prohibited by this plan, contract any of his or her duties to the agent or
otherwise.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.007 PLAN SERVICES.
   (A)   The Plan Administrator may contract with any person to provide
services to assist in the administration of the plan. The Plan Administrator
must make such contracts in compliance with the enabling statute and other
applicable state and local law.
   (B)   Any person other than the Plan Administrator who performs services
regarding the plan (including, but not limited to, the agent) is subject to the
supervision and direction of the Plan Administrator, and does not have
authority to control the operation of the plan.
   (C)   Any person other than the Plan Administrator who performs services
regarding the plan (including, but not limited to, the agent) is entitled to
rely upon any direction, instruction, information or action (or failure to act)
of the Plan Administrator as being proper under this plan, and is not required
to inquire into the propriety or correctness of any such direction,
instruction, information or action.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.008 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR OFFICIAL MAY NOT DECIDE PERSONAL BENEFIT.
   An individual shall recuse himself or herself from and shall take no part in
any Plan Administrator determination or decision specifically relating to his
or her own participation or deferred compensation unless his or her abstention
would render the Plan Administrator committee or organization incapable of
acting on the matter.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
OTHER PROVISIONS
§ 35.020 ANTI-ALIENATION.
   (A)   In addition to (and not by limitation upon) the provisions of the plan
and any provision of applicable law, any benefit or interest available under
the plan, or any right to receive or instruct payments under the plan, or any
distribution or payment made under the plan shall not be subject to assignment
(except under a disclaimer permitted by §
34.112), alienation, garnishment, attachment, transfer, anticipation, sale,
mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, commutation, transfer by operation of law,
execution or levy (except according to §
35.029) or other encumbrance of any kind, whether by the voluntary or
involuntary act of any interested person, for any reason (including, but not
limited to, divorce, marital separation, alimony, child support, bankruptcy,
insolvency) or any other order of any court at law or equity.
   (B)   The participant or beneficiary has no right to commute, sell, assign,
pledge, transfer or otherwise convey, use or encumber any right or future
interest to receive any payments under the plan, and each such right or
interest is expressly declared to be non-assignable and non-transferable. Any
attempted alienation or encumbrance is void.
   (C)   Any right of the participant or beneficiary is personal and, except as
provided below, cannot be exercised by any personal representative, attorney,
trustee, guardian, conservator, trustee in bankruptcy, court of law or equity
or other person or entity seeking to act in the name of or by the right of the
participant or beneficiary. However, the Plan Administrator may accept
instructions given by a personal representative if the participant or
beneficiary is determined to be incompetent or incapacitated by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by written expert opinion acceptable to the Plan
Administrator.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to preclude the payment of any
fees or any expenses (including taxes) of the plan-trustee deferred
compensation (and any right or future interest of the participant or
beneficiary) is not subject to the rights of creditors of the participant or
beneficiary.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.021 BANKRUPTCY.
   Each of the employer and the plan-trustee and the Plan Administrator and the
agent and each issuer and any person serving under contract or otherwise with
respect to the plan shall not be obligated to incur any cost to defend against
or set aside any judgment, decree or order relating to the division,
attachment, garnishment or execution of or levy upon the participant’s plan
account or any distribution, including (but not limited to) any order in any
bankruptcy proceeding of any kind. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any such
person is joined in any proceeding, the party may take such action as it
considers necessary or appropriate to protect any and all of its legal rights,
and the participant (or beneficiary) shall reimburse all actual fees of lawyers
and legal assistants and expenses reasonably incurred by such party.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.022 CLAIMS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   By the terms of the plan, the claimant (or other aggrieved person)
shall not be entitled to take any legal action (including, but not limited to,
instituting any arbitration procedure) or otherwise seek to enforce a claim to
benefits or rights under the plan until he, she or it has exhausted all claims
and appeals procedures provided by the plan.
   (B)   In considering claims under the plan, the Plan Administrator has full
power and discretionary authority to construe and interpret the provisions of
the plan and of any law governing or applying to or relating to the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.023 CONSTRUCTION.
   The plan shall be construed and interpreted according to §§
35.080 through
35.088.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.024 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   (A)   To the extent provided by any agreement made or adopted by the
participant and to the extent provided by any collective bargaining agreement
that covers the participant, for any claim, controversy, disagreement of any
kind or dispute of any kind, whether based on statute or public law, or private
law, contract, quasi-contract, tort, trust, fiduciary duty, special
relationship or any theory at law or in equity (including, but not limited to
and without limitation by enumeration, any claim of fraud, estoppel,
misrepresentation, fraudulent or negligent inducement, duress), arising out of
or related to this plan (for the purposes of this section referred to as a
“dispute”), if the dispute is not resolved under this plan’s claims procedures
(including any reconsideration, rehearing and appeal procedures provided by the
plan or otherwise made available by the Plan Administrator), the claimant shall
present the claim under the agreed dispute resolution and arbitration procedure
(for the purposes of this section referred to as the “procedure”).
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the procedure or
otherwise, the arbitrator shall not have any power to order or instruct
discovery of any document or other information that is protected by attorney-
client privilege, attorney work product privilege, self-evaluative or self-
critical analysis privilege or any similar evidentiary privilege under any
applicable law or under any rules of professional conduct that apply to any
lawyer who prepared, delivered or received the document or information. The
arbitrator shall not have any power to award any relief if the relief responds
to a claim or dispute that would be precluded by the statute of limitations or
statute of repose (as determined under §
35.047) if the claim or dispute were brought before the appropriate court (as
determined under §
35.051). The arbitrator shall not have any power to award any kind of
injunctive relief. The arbitrator shall not have any power to award any relief
contrary to the plan or otherwise that would cause the plan to fail to qualify
as an eligible deferred compensation plan within the meaning of I.R.C. § 457
(b). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the procedure or otherwise,
the arbitrator shall not have any power to award damages payable by a person
other than an employer. In reaching his or her decision, the arbitrator shall
have no power or authority to change or modify any provision of this plan,
including, without limitation, any provision concerning limitations on or
exculpation from liability or any provision concerning liquidated damages or
any provision concerning the allocation of expenses, including, without
limitation, litigation expenses or arbitration expenses. The plan shall be
construed or interpreted solely according to the provisions of this plan
(including §§
35.080 through
35.088) and shall be governed by §
35.027. If any part of this section is otherwise held to be unenforceable, the
rest of this section shall be construed and enforced as if such part(s) were
not a provision of this plan, and the unenforceable part shall in no way affect
any other duty to mediate or arbitrate or any other provision of this section
or otherwise under this plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.025 EXPENSES.
   (A)   Unless the employer specifically provides otherwise, the employer
shall not incur any expense in the operation and administration of the plan
other than for its obligations to make deferrals of compensation and to pay the
deferred compensation as provided by the plan. The plan shall make reasonable
charges against and from the accounts of participants for any expenses for the
administration of the plan. Upon the Plan Administrator’s written instruction,
the Plan Administrator (or any party acting for it or under contract to the
Plan Administrator or to the employer) shall be reimbursed from the plan
assets, except to the extent inconsistent with the enabling statute, for any
expense (including actual fees of lawyers and legal assistants) reasonably
incurred in performing services with respect to the plan. Except as otherwise
provided or permitted by the plan, the reimbursement shall be effected by
deducting a charge against all accounts according to an equitable method
determined by the Plan Administrator.
   (B)   If any kind of legal action or other proceeding regarding the plan to
which the employer or the Plan Administrator or the plan-trustee or any issuer
or any agent (or any other person acting for or at the request of any of them)
(each an “indemnified party”) may be a party is brought by a participant or
beneficiary (or by a person or entity claiming through a participant or
beneficiary), and the legal action is resolved in favor of the indemnified
party, each indemnified party participating in or contributing to the defense
of the legal action shall be entitled to be reimbursed from the participant’s
account for any and all actual fees of lawyers and legal assistants and other
expenses reasonably incurred in the defense of the legal action or proceeding.
   (C)   If the IRS determines, and the determination is not contested, or if
contested, is finally upheld (or otherwise finally determined), or if a final
court order (that is not appealed) decides that any payment of expenses is a
violation of I.R.C. § 457(g), each person who received a payment that was
determined to be a violation of I.R.C. § 457(g) shall pay full restitution into
the plan to the extent of the improperly paid expense (including fair interest
from the date the expense was improperly paid to the date that restitution is
made). The Plan Administrator must enforce payment of this restitution.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.026 FORFEITURE.
   To the extent required by applicable state law, if the participant pleads
guilty or is convicted of a crime or offense relating to his or her government
office or government employment and a court order provides for restitution
relating to such crime or offense, the participant (or, after the participant’s
death, each beneficiary) shall forfeit his, her or its deferred compensation to
the extent that the participant has not timely paid the restitution required by
the court order.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.027 GOVERNING LAW.
   This plan shall be governed by and construed and enforced according to the
internal laws (without regard to the law of conflicts) of the state or
commonwealth or jurisdiction in which the employer is incorporated or
organized.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.028 INSURANCE.
   The Plan Administrator may purchase, with plan assets or with amounts
required from the employer(s), insurance protecting the plan and the Plan
Administrator and the plan-trustee and any person who is or may be an
indemnified party and any other person acting or providing services regarding
this plan (whether or not the plan has or may have the power to indemnify such
persons) from liability or loss occurring by reason of the act or omission of
the insured person or entity.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.029 IRS LEVY.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of the plan, the Plan Administrator may
pay to the IRS from a participant’s (or beneficiary’s) account the amount that
the Plan Administrator finds is lawfully demanded under a levy issued by the
IRS with respect to that participant (or beneficiary) or is sought to be
collected by the United States government under a judgment resulting from an
unpaid tax assessment against the participant (or beneficiary).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.030 MEDICARE OR MEDICAID REIMBURSEMENT.
   Solely to avoid an overpayment under Medicare or Medicaid or a similar
healthcare program, if a participant’s services during any time that
contributions were made were an expense reimbursed by the Social Security
Administration (“SSA”) or the Health Care Financing Administration (“HCFA”) or
a similar government healthcare payer, and any deferred compensation
attributable to such services is not to be paid to the participant or his or
her beneficiary, the employer shall pay the attributable portion of the
participant’s deferred compensation to the applicable government healthcare
payer as of the first date that the deferred compensation is not to be paid to
the participant or his or her beneficiary.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.031 MISTAKEN CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   If any contribution (or any portion of a contribution) is made by the
employer by a good faith mistake of fact, upon receipt in good order (within
the meaning of the investment(s) or applicable law) of a proper request
approved by the Plan Administrator, the issuer(s) shall, to the extent required
or permitted by the investment(s), return the amount of the mistaken
contribution(s), except as limited below, to the employer, or to the extent
required or permitted by the investment(s) and approved by the Plan
Administrator, directly to the participant to the extent of any mistaken
employee contribution(s). The participant’s exercise of a “free look” or right-
to-return or similar cancellation provision under applicable insurance or
securities law is deemed to cause a contribution to be by a good faith mistake
of fact. Upon any return of a mistaken contribution, earnings or losses
attributable to the mistaken contribution shall be determined according to the
provisions of the applicable investment or other applicable law.
   (B)   If a court or agency having jurisdiction finally determines or if the
employer or the Plan Administrator receives written legal advice (other than
under a suit or proceeding initiated by the participant) that any participant
was not an employee at the relevant time or otherwise was not eligible to
become a participant, the Plan Administrator shall treat the mistakenly
accepted participant’s contributions and plan account, to the extent that the
participant was not eligible to make or receive the contributions, as mistaken
contributions.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.032 NECESSARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   The participant (or beneficiary or alternate payee) shall provide upon
any request of the Plan Administrator or the agent any information that may be
needed for the proper and lawful operation and administration of the plan,
including (but not limited to) the participant’s legal name, the participant’s
Social Security number (“SSN”) or other taxpayer identifying number (“TIN”),
the participant’s date of birth, each beneficiary’s legal name, each
beneficiary’s Social Security number (“SSN”) or other taxpayer identifying
number (“TIN”) and each beneficiary’s date of birth. The participant (or
beneficiary or alternate payee) shall promptly respond to and fully answer any
reasonable inquiry related to these purposes. A failure to provide any
information described above or which otherwise may be necessary or appropriate
for the lawful operation of the plan may result in a delay of eligibility for
participation, in a delay of the payment of contributions or in a delay or
refusal by the Plan Administrator, in his or her discretion, to authorize or
permit any distribution or payment. The Plan Administrator (and any party
acting for it) has the right to rely on any information or representation given
by any participant or beneficiary or other party interested in the plan. The
Plan Administrator has no duty to inquire into the accuracy or adequacy or
truth of any such information or representation. Any such representation is
binding upon any party seeking to claim through the participant.
   (B)   The Plan Administrator may provide that any statement to be made or
any information to be furnished must be made or furnished under penalties of
perjury. Any notice to that effect may include a statement of the penalties for
a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1027 and I.R.C. § 7206. The absence of any such
provision or notice shall not be construed to create or suggest any inference
concerning the application of any law.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.033 NO CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Under no circumstances shall this plan constitute or modify a contract of
employment or in any way obligate the employer to continue the services of any
employee.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.034 NO RIGHT OTHER THAN PROVIDED BY THE PLAN.
   The existence of the plan and the employer’s or plan-custodian’s purchase of
any investment(s) for the purposes of the plan shall not be construed as giving
to any participant or beneficiary or any other person any legal or equitable
right against the employer or any issuer or any other person or organization,
except as expressly provided by the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.035 NOTICES.
   Each participant or beneficiary shall be responsible for furnishing the Plan
Administrator (and the agent and the applicable issuer(s)) with his, her or its
current address at all times. Any notice to a participant or beneficiary or
alternate payee required or permitted to be given under this plan shall be
deemed given if directed to the proper person at the current address in any
plan (or investment) record and mailed or otherwise delivered to that address.
This section shall not be construed to require the mailing or delivery of any
notice otherwise permitted to be given by posting or by publication.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.036 PLAN IS BINDING.
   (A)   This plan, and all acts and decisions taken under it, is binding and
conclusive, for all purposes, upon all interested persons, and upon the heirs,
executors, administrators, successors and assigns of any and all such persons.
   (B)   The plan shall not affect contracts or other dealings with a person
who is not an interested person unless a written agreement executed by that
person expressly so provides.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.037 POWER-OF-ATTORNEY.
   (A)   A power-of-attorney cannot be effective for any purpose with respect
to the plan unless the Plan Administrator determines that the power-of-attorney
is acceptable.
   (B)   The Plan Administrator shall not accept a power-of-attorney until the
Plan Administrator determines that the power-of-attorney appears, on its face,
to meet all of the following requirements.
      (1)   The power-of-attorney was made in a form and manner that is legally
enforceable under applicable law.
      (2)   The power-of-attorney indemnifies the Plan Administrator and the
agent and every person who may rely on the power-of-attorney against any
liability that may arise out of the Plan Administrator’s acceptance of the
power-of-attorney or any person’s acts or omissions in reliance upon the power-
of-attorney, even if revoked (including revocation by reason of the maker’s
death).
      (3)   The power-of-attorney expressly refers to this plan with sufficient
clarity so that the Plan Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, believes
that there is no confusion or ambiguity concerning whether an express power to
act regarding this plan was intended.
      (4)   The power-of-attorney unambiguously provides one or more powers to
act regarding this plan.
      (5)   The power-of-attorney meets any further requirements stated below
in this section or otherwise under the plan, and meets any other requirements
reasonably requested by the Plan Administrator.
   (C)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, any power-of-
attorney, including even a general power-of-attorney, cannot be effective to
make or change the participant’s beneficiary designation under the plan unless
the document, in the Plan Administrator’s sole opinion, expressly grants power
to make or change beneficiary designations under this plan and refers to this
plan with sufficient clarity so that the Plan Administrator, in his or her sole
discretion, believes that there is no confusion or ambiguity concerning whether
an express power to act regarding beneficiary designations under this plan was
intended.
   (D)   (1)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, any
power-of-attorney, including even a general power-of-attorney, cannot be
effective to exercise any right or privilege of investment direction under the
plan unless the document, in the sole opinion of the person that is requested
to give effect to an investment instruction, expressly grants power to act
regarding investment direction under this plan and expresses the principal’s
(participant’s or beneficiary’s or alternate payee’s) knowledge as to whether
the attorney-in-fact is or is not a registered investment adviser and refers to
this plan with sufficient clarity so that the issuer determines that there is
no confusion or ambiguity concerning whether an express power to act regarding
investment direction under this plan was intended.
      (2)   For the purpose of subsection (D)(1) above, an investment advisory
agreement that conforms to the disclosure and investment advisory contract
requirements of § 204 and § 205 of the federal Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
as amended (15 U.S.C. § 80b-4 and 15 U.S.C. § 80b-5), is deemed to constitute
an acceptable power-of-attorney if it refers to the plan or to the investment
held for the participant’s plan account.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.038 PRIVACY.
   (A)   The employer may (but is not required to) take reasonable steps to
protect participants’ privacy concerning participation under the plan.
   (B)   However, the employer and the Plan Administrator and any agent and any
service provider (and any other person acting for or at the request of any of
them) may disclose information concerning the participant’s (or beneficiary’s)
account:
      (1)   When requested by the attorney-in-fact who is currently acting
under a power-of-attorney that was accepted by the Plan Administrator under §
35.037;
      (2)   When required by any court order or legal process;
      (3)   Without a court order or legal process when reasonably requested by
the IRS or the SEC or the NASD;
      (4)   When reasonably requested by a public accountant engaged by the
Plan Administrator or by an employer or by a plan-trustee or by an agent or by
an issuer;
      (5)   When, in the course of any proceeding relating to divorce,
separation or child support, an attorney-at-law states, in writing, that he or
she represents the participant’s (or, after the participant’s death, the
beneficiary’s) spouse or former spouse or child and that the information is
reasonably related to such proceeding; and
      (6)   When, in the course of the administration of any estate or
succession, the personal representative (or an attorney-at-law who represents
the personal representative) states in writing that he, she or it needs the
requested information for the purpose of preparing a return of any estate tax,
transfer tax, gift tax, inheritance tax, death tax or similar tax, whether of
the United States or any state or any foreign nation.
   (C)   If a person presents himself or herself as an attorney-at-law and
states that he or she has authority to act for a person or entity, the Plan
Administrator and the agent shall be entitled without inquiry to assume unless
it has actual knowledge to the contrary, that the person so presenting himself
or herself has the authority stated.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.039 PROTECTION OF ISSUERS.
   Any issuer shall not be liable in acting according to any instruction, if in
writing or otherwise reasonably believed to be genuine, of its contract owner
or other person that has the right to give instructions under the terms of the
investment, and shall not be required to question (unless otherwise provided by
the applicable investment) any action or inaction so instructed. The issuer
shall not be required to take or permit any action or allow any benefit or
privilege contrary to the terms of any investment which it may issue regarding
the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.040 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER PLANS.
   This plan is in addition to any other retirement, pension or benefit plan
presently in existence or later established (if any), and participation under
the plan shall not affect benefits or obligations of any person under any other
plan unless the plan is a deferred compensation plan subject to I.R.C. § 457.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.041 RESTITUTION AND RESTORATION.
   In addition to (and not by limitation upon) any other remedy, including (but
not limited to) any legal, equitable, remedial or other relief, to the extent
that any person breaches §
30.021, such person shall be personally liable to make good to the plan (or, in
an appropriate case, to the applicable participant or beneficiary or alternate
payee) any losses to the plan resulting from or arising out of each such
breach, and to restore to the plan any profits of such person which have been
made through the breaching person’s improper use of plan assets.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.042 SERVICE OF LEGAL PROCESS.
   Requests for information, claims or demands, legal process and court orders
are properly delivered when delivered to the Plan Administrator at the
employer’s principal place of business.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.043 SEPARABILITY.
   If a court finds that any provision of the plan is invalid, the plan shall
be construed and enforced as if the invalid provision was not a provision of
the plan unless the court finds or the Plan Administrator determines that such
a construction of the plan would be clearly contrary to the intent of the plan
or would be contrary to I.R.C. § 457(b) or would violate the enabling statute.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.044 SIGNATURE.
   (A)   If a participant or beneficiary or alternate payee (or other person
claiming through a participant or beneficiary or alternate payee) must submit
any writing of any kind required or permitted under the plan, the maker’s
signature must be complete and formal, except as expressly provided by §
35.045. However, if the maker has a disability that precludes him or her from
making a complete and formal signature and the Plan Administrator finds that an
accommodation may be required by the Americans with Disabilities Act, a writing
is signed if it bears or includes or incorporates any symbol executed or
adopted by or on behalf of the maker with a present intention to authenticate
the writing, or it is otherwise demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Plan
Administrator that the maker had (at the relevant time) a present intention to
adopt the writing.
   (B)   In addition to and not by limitation upon §
35.045, any writing of any kind required or permitted as to an investment may
be signed in any manner provided by the investment, including, to the extent
consistent with the investment, applicable investment law.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.045 SIGNATURES AND BROAD ACCEPTANCE OF WRITINGS.
   (A)   An instruction (but not a claim for any kind of distribution or plan
loan) is considered to be written or in writing and signed according to the
following broad provisions, except as otherwise specified by a uniform written
procedure adopted by the Plan Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   Written or writing or in writing includes any intentional
reduction to tangible form.
      (2)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of subsection (B)(1)
above, any of the following is a writing and all of the following rules of
construction apply in determining what is a writing and who made the writing.
Written or writing or in writing includes handwriting, typewriting, printing.
Writing includes any copy or reproduction, including (but not limited to) a
photocopy, of an original writing. Writing includes a telefacsimile
transmission. Writing includes a videotape or audiotape recording, including a
recording of a telephone conversation; and a person’s commencement or
continuation of a conversation after the person is informed that the
conversation is or may be recorded shall be deemed such person’s intent to
reduce the conversation to writing. Anything that is the subject of a written
confirmation is deemed to be in writing. Writing or written includes anything
that is recognized as such by the Restatement of Contracts or the Uniform
Commercial Code as then-currently published or adopted by the American Law
Institute or the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws.
Writing or written includes anything that is recognized as such under § 2(9) of
the federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended (15 U.S.C. § 77b(9)) or any rule
or regulation thereunder. A writing made by a person who appears to be an agent
or attorney-in-fact is the writing of the apparent principal unless the Plan
Administrator has actual knowledge that no agency exists. The Plan
Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may construe any writing(s), and
may combine separate writings, including writings that are not contemporaneous,
so as to establish one integrated writing or instruction.
   (C)   (1)   Signed or signature includes any symbol executed or adopted by a
person with present intention to authenticate a writing.
      (2)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of subsection (C)(1)
above, any of the following is a signature and all of the following rules of
construction apply in determining what is a signature and who signed.
Authentication may be handwritten, typed, printed, stamped or otherwise
written. A signature need not consist of the person’s legal name. A signature
need not consist of the person’s entire name. A signature may be on any part of
a writing (except as expressly limited below). A person who fills out a form in
his or her own handwriting or typewriting has signed that form or writing.
Anything that is the subject of a written confirmation is deemed to be signed
if the recipient of the confirmation does not promptly object to the
confirmation. For a conversation, a person’s use of his or her voice is a
signature. For a conversation, a person’s compliance with the authentication
procedure specified by the Plan Administrator or his or her agent is a
signature. Signed or signature includes anything that is recognized as such for
any purposes by the Restatement of Contracts or the Uniform Commercial Code as
then-currently published or adopted by the American Law Institute or the
National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws. A signature need
not be contemporaneous to the writing that it authenticates. A signature made
by a person who appears to be an agent or attorney-in-fact is the signature of
the apparent principal unless the Plan Administrator has actual knowledge that
no agency exists. A writing that includes a forgery at the place where a
signature customarily would be made is not signed by any person other than the
forger.
   (D)   Upon receiving anything that appears to be a writing, or anything that
appears to be a signature or signed, the Plan Administrator shall not be liable
or responsible to anyone to the extent that it acted without actual knowledge
that the writing was false or that the signature was a forgery.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.046 SIGNATURE GUARANTEE.
   In addition to (and not by limitation of) any other provision of the plan,
for any claim or instruction of any kind the Plan Administrator may require the
person submitting the claim or instruction to include on the written claim or
instruction a signature guarantee when required under a uniform written
procedure of the Plan Administrator.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.047 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   As to any action at law or in equity under or with respect to this
plan (other than as described by subsection (B) below), the action shall be
governed by (or precluded by) the relevant statute of limitations or statute of
repose for actions upon a written contract according to the internal laws
(without regard to the law of conflicts) of the state in which the employer is
incorporated or organized.
   (B)   For any dispute that was resolved by arbitration, to the extent that
the statute of limitations or statute of repose relating to any arbitration
proceeding or arbitration award is not governed by the federal Arbitration Act,
any arbitration proceeding or arbitration award or any other matter relating to
arbitration shall be governed by the internal laws (without regard to the law
of conflicts) of the state in which the arbitration was conducted.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.048 TRANSLATIONS.
   This plan or any part of it may be translated (at the sole discretion of the
Plan Administrator) into or summarized in another language(s) for the
convenience of certain employees. However, the original English language text
of the plan shall control, and the translation of the plan has no effect in the
construction of the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.049 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   For the purposes of any unclaimed property statute, if a distribution has
not commenced, any deferred compensation does not become distributable until
such time as a distribution is mandatory under the terms of the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.050 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
   For the purposes of any unemployment compensation law, a distribution in one
sum or as installments for a period of not more than one year, to the extent
attributable to employer contributions, is deemed a severance payment and shall
be so allocated (for the purposes of the applicable unemployment compensation
law) over a period of weeks equal to the amount of the distribution divided by
the participant’s regular weekly pay before the separation-from-service with
this period beginning on the first week that begins after the date of the
separation-from-service.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.051 VENUE.
   (A)   If any person, including, without limitation, any participant or
beneficiary or alternate payee or distributee (or any person claiming through a
participant or beneficiary or alternate payee or distributee) brings or
maintains any suit or action (other than as described by subsection (B) below)
against the Plan Administrator or the plan-trustee or to which the Plan
Administrator or the plan-trustee is or becomes a party, each such person
hereby submits to exclusive jurisdiction and exclusive venue in the courts
sitting in and for the district in which the Plan Administrator has his or her
principal place of business.
   (B)   However, any suit or action upon an arbitration award or relating to
an arbitration shall be governed by the internal laws (without regard to the
law of conflicts) of the state in which the arbitration was conducted, and each
such person who is or was a party to an arbitration hereby submits to exclusive
jurisdiction and exclusive venue in the courts sitting in and for the district
in which the city or place of the arbitration is located.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
AMENDMENTS
§ 35.065 EMPLOYER’S RIGHT TO AMEND THE PLAN.
   The employer (including the Plan Administrator) has the right to amend the
plan at any time. In considering or making any amendment, the employer acts
solely as an employer and not as a fiduciary of any kind. The employer has the
right to discontinue the plan at any time.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.066 AMENDMENT CANNOT CHANGE EXCLUSIVE BENEFIT.
   To the extent required by §
30.021, any amendment of the plan shall not be effective to the extent that the
amendment has the effect of causing any plan assets to be diverted to or inure
to the benefit of the employer, or to be used for any purpose other than
providing deferred compensations to participants and beneficiaries and
defraying reasonable expenses of administering the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.067 AMENDMENT CANNOT PROVIDE ANY CUTBACK.
   Any amendment shall not reduce the amount of deferred compensation credited
to any account before the date of the amendment, and shall not impair the
rights of any person to the deferred compensation so credited.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.068 RETROACTIVE EFFECT.
   Any amendment of the plan may be given immediate or retroactive effect,
provided that such immediate or retroactive effect does not cause the plan to
fail to meet the requirements of an eligible deferred compensation plan within
the meaning of I.R.C. § 457(b).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.069 MERGER OR CONSOLIDATION.
   To the extent that accounts that are funded by a plan-trust or other
exclusive benefit arrangement in compliance with I.R.C. § 457(g), this plan may
be merged or consolidated with, and such assets and liabilities may be
transferred to, another eligible deferred compensation plan under I.R.C. § 457
(b) but only if the transferee plan meets the requirements of I.R.C. § 457(g)
and under the successor plan the deferred compensation with respect to each
participant is at least equal to the deferred compensation the participant
would have received if he or she had received a lump-sum distribution under the
transferor plan immediately before the transfer, merger or consolidation.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
CONSTRUCTION
§ 35.080 CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter govern the construction or interpretation
of this plan. These rules of construction and interpretation shall apply for
all provisions, and shall supersede any other construction or interpretation
rules.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.081 CONSTRUCTION AS AN ELIGIBLE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   The plan is established and maintained with the intent that the plan always
be an “eligible deferred compensation plan” within the meaning of I.R.C. § 457
(b) and conform to the Internal Revenue Code’s requirements for treatment or
recognition as such a plan. Therefore, the provisions of the plan shall be
interpreted whenever possible to state provisions that conform to the
applicable requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. When the Internal Revenue
Code is amended or interpreted through subsequent legislation or regulations or
other guidance of general applicability, the plan should be construed as
stating provisions consistent with such amendment or interpretation of the
applicable law.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.082 CONSTRUCTION WITH ENABLING STATUTE.
   The plan is established and maintained with the intent that the plan
conforms to the applicable requirements of the enabling statute. The provisions
of the plan shall be interpreted whenever possible to state provisions that
conform to the applicable requirements of the enabling statute. When the
enabling statute is amended or interpreted through subsequent legislation or
regulations or an attorney general opinion, the plan should be construed as
stating provisions consistent with such amendment or interpretation of the
applicable law.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.083 CONSTRUCTION OF STATUTES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any reference to a section of the Internal Revenue Code shall be
construed to also refer to any successor provision. Any reference to a section
of Treasury Regulations shall be construed to also refer to any successor
provision of such regulations. Any reference to a revenue ruling or revenue
procedure or IRS notice or IRS announcement shall be construed to also refer to
any guidance of general applicability that extends, amplifies or modifies the
revenue ruling or revenue procedure or IRS notice or IRS announcement.
   (B)   The plan refers to relevant regulations, including (but not limited
to) Treasury Regulations under the Internal Revenue Code, without regard to
whether the regulations are substantive or interpretive and without regard to
whether the regulations are proposed or temporary or final; but it is intended
that any provision that refers to a regulation shall be construed to refer to
the regulation in the sense of the appropriate legal effect (under
administrative procedure law and otherwise) that the regulation currently has
at the time the construction is made.
   (C)   To the extent that a provision states a duty owed to any government
(rather than a duty to a participant or beneficiary or other person or entity
having an interest under the plan), the provision shall be construed as
directory and shall be enforced only by the government. However, a provision
that is necessary for the plan to meet the requirements of an eligible deferred
compensation plan within the meaning of I.R.C. § 457(b) includes a duty owed to
participants and beneficiaries and is not directory.
   (D)   To the extent that a construction or interpretation of the plan
involves a construction of a statute or regulation, the Plan Administrator may
(but is not required to) construe the statute or regulation according to the
Uniform Statutory Construction Act.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.084 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   (A)   The headings and numbering of provisions in the plan and text that is
stated within brackets are included solely for convenience of reference and are
not intended to limit or amplify or control the meaning or interpretation or
construction of any provision of this plan.
   (B)   The phrase “under the plan” or “under this plan” refers to the entire
plan (and any plan-trust agreement) as a whole and not merely to any part of
any document or provision in which the phrase appears. Any reference to a part
of the plan refers to the whole part. Any reference to a definition or
provision of the plan refers to the whole definition or provision unless the
reference specifies a particular portion or paragraph of the provision.
   (C)   The singular shall be construed to include the plural unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
   (D)   The words “as” or “if” shall be construed to mean the phrase “to the
extent that”, as appropriate in the context.
   (E)   Any reference to the Plan Administrator shall be construed to refer
also to the agent and the agent and the agent and the issuer(s) and any other
party acting for or at the instruction of the Plan Administrator.
   (F)   Unless the provision states otherwise, any reference to a person or
party shall be construed to refer also to any non-natural person or any entity
(including, but not limited to, any trust or estate).
   (G)   To the extent that a provision states a duty owed to any government
(rather than a duty to a participant or beneficiary or other person or entity
having an interest under the plan), the provision shall be construed as
directory and shall be enforced only by the government.
   (H)   Any reference to a corporation or similar organization shall be
construed to include any successor to the corporation or similar organization.
   (I)   All provisions of the plan-trust agreement that do not conflict with
the plan are incorporated by reference and are a part of the plan as if fully
set forth by this document.
   (J)   All provisions of a prospectus and statement of additional information
or statement of operation of a fund that do not conflict with the plan are
incorporated by reference and are a part of the plan as if fully set forth by
this document.
   (K)   If any provision concerning a benefit under the plan is ambiguous, a
construction or interpretation of the provision that would provide that such
benefit is available in a non-discriminatory manner shall take precedence over
a construction or interpretation that would not so provide.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.085 CONSTRUCTION BY REFERENCE TO MODEL LAWS.
   To the extent that any construction beyond the written provisions of the
plan is necessary, the plan shall be construed (except as otherwise provided by
the plan) according to any then-current restatement of law published or
promulgated by the American Law Institute or any then-current Uniform Act or
Model Act published or recommended by the National Conference of Commissioners
on Uniform State Laws. For this purpose, the Plan Administrator may rely on the
text of any Uniform Act or Model Act as published in the current edition of
Martindale-Hubbell Law Digest. The Plan Administrator may consider a withdrawn
Uniform Act or Model Act if no successor has been promulgated. Among these
sources, the Plan Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may select any
order of reference and if more than one source is relevant may decide which
source it considers controlling or appropriate.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.086 INVESTMENT LAW.
   Whenever, after applying the specific construction rules of any definition
or section or subchapter and the general construction rules stated in this
subchapter, the plan may be susceptible to more than one construction or
interpretation, a construction or interpretation that is consistent with or
that is not inconsistent with applicable investment law is preferred over a
construction or interpretation that is inconsistent with applicable investment
law.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.087 EMPLOYMENT LAWS.
   (A)   Whenever, after applying the specific construction rules of any
definition or provision or part and the general construction rules stated in
this subchapter, the plan may be susceptible to more than one construction or
interpretation, a construction or interpretation that is consistent with or
that is not inconsistent with applicable employment laws is preferred over a
construction or interpretation that would result in a violation of or that is
otherwise inconsistent with applicable employment laws.
   (B)   For the purpose of subsection (A) above, employment laws includes the
following laws of the United States: Age Discrimination in Employment Act (29
U.S.C. §§ 623 through 631); the Americans with Disabilities Act (29 U.S.C. §§
12101 et seq.); the Civil Rights Act of 1964 Title VII (42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et
seq.), including the Civil Rights Act of 1991 (Pub. Law No. 101-66, 103 Stat.
1164, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1981A et seq.); the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of
1988 (29 U.S.C. §§ 2001 et seq.); the Equal Pay Act (29 U.S.C. §§ 203 through
206); the Fair Labor Standards Act; the Family and Medical Leave Act; the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (8 U.S.C. §§ 1158 et seq.); the
Labor Management Relations Act (the Taft-Hartley Act) (29 U.S.C. § 186); the
Military Selective Service Act to the extent not superseded by USERRA; the
National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq.); the Occupational
Safety and Health Act (29 U.S.C. §§ 651 et seq.); the Older Americans Act; the
Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (29 U.S.C. §§ 623 through 626); the
Pregnancy Discrimination Act; the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 301 et
seq.); the Unemployment Compensation Law (29 U.S.C. § 49); USERRA (as defined
above); the Veterans Re-employment Rights Act (38 U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq.) to
the extent not superseded by USERRA; and the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act (29 U.S.C. §§ 2101 et seq.).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 35.088 UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION AND STATE CONSTITUTION.
   When applying any of the preceding construction rules relating to the
Internal Revenue Code or the enabling statute or employment laws or government
contracts laws, the Plan Administrator need not consider any statute or
regulation or order to the extent that its application is contrary to the
constitution of the United States or is contrary to the Constitution of the
state; however, the Plan Administrator may presume that any statute or
regulation or order is not unconstitutional until a published controlling court
decision expressly holds that such law is contrary to a constitution.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
CHAPTER 36: PLAN-TRUST DECLARATION
Section
Making the Plan-Trust
   
36.001   Making this plan-trust
   
36.002   Purpose of the plan-trust
   
36.003   Plan-trust is irrevocable
   
36.004   Exclusive benefit
   
36.005   Plan and plan-trust tax status
   
36.006   Adding property to the plan-trust
   
36.007   Definitions
Using the Investments
   
36.020   Plan investments
   
36.021   Participant-directed investment
Processing Account
   
36.035   Plan-trustee’s processing account
   
36.036   Agent’s processing accounts
Plan-Trustee’s Duties
   
36.050   Plan-trustee must defend the plan-trust
   
36.051   Plan-trustee must hold investments
   
36.052   Plan-trustee has no investment duties
Plan-Trustee’s Powers
   
36.065   Plan-trustee’s powers
   
36.066   Powers to use investments
   
36.067   General powers
   
36.068   Power to employee accountants and counsel
Plan-Trustee’s Limitations
   
36.080   Only investments
   
36.081   Employer sends contributions
   
36.082   Plan Administrator delivers investment directions
   
36.083   Exclusive benefit
Plan-Trustee’s Compensation
   
36.095   Plan-trustee serves without compensation
   
36.096   Plan-trustee’s special expenses
   
36.097   Accounting
   
36.098   Defense of the plan-trust
Accounts
   
36.110   Plan accounting is plan-trust accounting
   
36.111   Plan audits
   
36.112   Court accounting
   
36.113   Court-settled accounting or instructions
Other Provisions
   
36.125   Accounts
   
36.126   Action of plan-trustee
   
36.127   Allocation of responsibility
   
36.128   Anti-alienation
   
36.129   Audit
   
36.130   Bonding
   
36.131   Construction
   
36.132   Course of dealing does not change agreement
   
36.133   Court-settled accounting
   
36.134   Dealings with the plan-trustee
   
36.135   Direction by Plan Administrator
   
36.136   Entire agreement
   
36.137   Expenses
   
36.138   Governing law
   
36.139   Indemnification
   
36.140   Limitation on liability
   
36.141   Mistaken contributions
   
36.142   No plan duties
   
36.143   No right other than under plan
   
36.144   Non-involvement in business management
   
36.145   Notices
   
36.146   Prohibited transaction
   
36.147   Protection of issuers
   
36.148   Proxy voting
   
36.149   Restitution and restoration
   
36.150   Rule against accumulations
   
36.151   Rule against perpetuities
   
36.152   Separability
   
36.153   Standard of care
   
36.154   Taxes
   
36.155   Third party reliance
   
36.156   Venue
Amendment or Termination
   
36.170   Amendment of plan-trust
   
36.171   Termination of plan-trust
   
36.172   No assets
   
36.173   Court order
MAKING THE PLAN-TRUST
§ 36.001 MAKING THIS PLAN-TRUST.
   This plan-trust declaration is made by and among the plan sponsor and the
Plan Administrator and the plan-trustee (the “executing parties”). The plan
sponsor and each employer wants the plan-trustee to hold the investments, and
wants the plan-trustee or the agent to accept contributions and pay
distributions, and the plan-trustee and the Plan Administrator are willing to
do so, pursuant to the provisions of the plan-trust declaration.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.002 PURPOSE OF THE PLAN-TRUST.
   (A)   The purpose of the plan-trust is to hold the investments and any other
money or property held for the purposes of the plan solely as plan assets for
the purpose of investing plan accounts and paying plan distributions.
   (B)   All parties acknowledge that each employer has created the plan-trust
and the executing parties have made this plan-trust declaration solely to meet
the requirement of I.R.C. § 457(b)(6) together with I.R.C. § 457(g). The
employer and the Plan Administrator each acknowledges that the plan-trust has
no business or plan administration purpose other than as stated by §
36.004.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.003 PLAN-TRUST IS IRREVOCABLE.
   Beginning on the date that the employer executes or adopts the plan-trust
declaration, the plan-trust is irrevocable, except to the extent provided by §§
36.141 or
36.171.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.004 EXCLUSIVE BENEFIT.
   The plan and the plan-trust are established for the exclusive benefit of
participants and their beneficiaries. Except as otherwise permitted by I.R.C. §
457(g), all assets and income of the plan shall be held for the exclusive
benefit of the plan’s participants and their beneficiaries.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.005 PLAN AND PLAN-TRUST TAX STATUS.
   The plan is intended to be an eligible deferred compensation plan within the
meaning of I.R.C. § 457(b), and the plan-trust is intended to be tax-exempt
under I.R.C. § 501(a) pursuant to I.R.C. § 457(g).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.006 ADDING PROPERTY TO THE PLAN-TRUST.
   The Plan Administrator and the plan-trustee shall cause all investments
applied for after the date that this declaration is adopted to be issued to or
registered in the name of the plan-trustee for the purposes of this plan-trust.
Further, each employer that maintains a plan, with respect to which this plan-
trust declaration is made, hereby irrevocably transfers to the plan-trustee all
rights, title and interest in all investments that the employer previously
owned but intended to use primarily for the purposes of the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.007 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in the plan-trust declaration, each of the following terms has
the meaning stated below. Any term not defined by this plan-trust declaration
that is defined by an investment or by a group-trust declaration has the
meaning given by the investment or by the group-trust declaration. Any other
capitalized term in this plan-trust declaration has the meaning given by the
plan, or if not defined by the plan, the meaning given by the Internal Revenue
Code or by applicable investment law.
   ACCOUNT. Has the meaning given by the plan.
   AGENT. Copeland Associates, Inc., together with its subsidiaries and
affiliates that perform services regarding the plan and their successors, but
only so long as the service agreement is in effect.
   BENEFICIARY.
      (1)   Has the meaning given by the plan.
      (2)   The use of the term BENEFICIARY shall not constitute such person or
entity as a beneficiary under the plan-trust.
   BUSINESS DAY. Has the meaning given by the plan.
   CONTRIBUTION.
      (1)   Has the meaning given by the plan.
      (2)   Generally, a contribution is the acceptable delivery of money to
the plan-trustee to be applied under an annuity or life insurance contract or
toward the purchase of fund shares.
      (3)   The plan-trustee is not responsible for the determination or
collection of any contribution required or permitted by the plan.
   DISTRIBUTION. Has the meaning given by the plan for the purposes of this
plan-trust declaration is intended to exclude any distribution or payment under
the plan-trust that is not a distribution under the plan.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The first date that any property is held by or an amount is
credited to the plan-trust. The EFFECTIVE DATE shall not be earlier than August
20, 1996.
   EMPLOYER.
      (1)   Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation, the
eligible employer that signs this plan-trust declaration and otherwise has the
meaning given by the plan.
      (2)   Only a state or political subdivision or agency thereof or other
organization described in I.R.C. § 457(e)(1)(A) can be an employer under the
plan-trust.
   ENABLING STATUTE. The state statute that grants the employer legal authority
to maintain the plan.
   FUND. Has the meaning given by the plan.
   I.R.C. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and including any
regulations and rulings (or other Treasury Department or IRS guidance of
general applicability) under the I.R.C. Any reference to a section of the
I.R.C. shall be construed to also refer to any successor provision.
   INVESTMENT. Has the meaning given by the plan.
   INVESTMENT LAW. Has the meaning given by the plan.
   PARTICIPANT.
      (1)   Has the meaning given by the plan.
      (2)   The use of the term PARTICIPANT shall not constitute such person or
entity as a beneficiary under the plan-trust.
   PLAN.
      (1)   The eligible deferred compensation plan maintained by the employer
that sign this plan-trust declaration.
      (2)   Solely to the extent necessary under the definitions provisions
stated in this section, the plan is incorporated into and made a part of this
plan-trust declaration by reference.
   PLAN-TRUST. The legal entity and relationship established by this written
plan-trust declaration.
   PLAN-TRUST DECLARATION. The legal agreement or declaration stated by this
document (including any group-trust declaration which is incorporated by
reference in this plan-trust declaration) together with the applicable plan to
the extent incorporated by reference.
   PLAN-TRUSTEE.
      (1)   Means the plan sponsor if applicable law does not prohibit the plan
sponsor from serving as the PLAN-TRUSTEE.
      (2)   To the extent that applicable law prohibits the plan sponsor from
serving as the plan-trustee, the natural person who signs his or her name on
this declaration on behalf of the plan-trustee and, after that individual’s
separation-from-service with the employer, the natural person who is the
successor-in-office unless the employer previously has delivered to the agent a
written instruction that names the plan-trustee.
   PLAN ADMINISTRATOR. Has the meaning given by the plan.
   PLAN SPONSOR. Has the meaning given by the plan.
   PROCESSING ACCOUNT. Any bank account maintained by or used by the plan-
trustee or the agent, according to §§
36.035 and
36.036.
   SERVICE AGREEMENT. The written agreement between Copeland Associates, Inc.,
or its successor, and the plan sponsor that provides for the agent to perform
services regarding the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
USING THE INVESTMENTS
§ 36.020 PLAN INVESTMENTS.
   The plan-trustee shall apply for and hold the investments selected by the
employer.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.021 PARTICIPANT-DIRECTED INVESTMENT.
   (A)   In addition to (and not by limitation upon) the provisions above, the
plan-trustee hereby authorizes the agent to accept investment instructions
given by each participant and, after a participant’s death, each beneficiary
with respect to his, her or its plan account, or by a registered investment
adviser regarding a plan account for which the registered investment adviser is
entitled to convey or give instructions under applicable investment law and the
plan. The plan-trustee shall have no knowledge of any investment instruction.
   (B)   If the participant’s investment instructions are not received in good
order, the plan-trustee or the agent (or any other person serving regarding the
plan-trust) may hold any contribution or other amount in cash, without
liability for interest or investment gains of any kind, until the person
receives complete proper instructions in good order.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
PROCESSING ACCOUNT
§ 36.035 PLAN-TRUSTEE’S PROCESSING ACCOUNT.
   In addition to (and not by limitation upon) any other provisions of this
plan-trust declaration, the plan-trustee may (but is not required to) establish
and maintain a bank account(s) for the purpose of receiving and holding for a
reasonable time amounts awaiting investment. This account may be used to hold
contributions awaiting investment. This account may be used for receiving and
clearing a transfer paid to the plan-trustee under another eligible deferred
compensation plan to be invested under the plan. This account may be used to
receive amounts to pay a distribution to a participant or beneficiary or other
distributee or payee. Any interest income or investment earnings attributable
to this account shall be used to defray plan administration expenses.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.036 AGENT’S PROCESSING ACCOUNTS.
   In addition to (and not by limitation upon) any other provision of this
plan-trust declaration, the employer and the Plan Administrator hereby approve
and the plan-trustee shall authorize and ratify any deposit of amounts into a
bank account(s) maintained by the agent, which may commingle plan amounts
together with plan assets of other deferred compensation plans and retirement
plans, provided that the person that holds such account maintains adequate
accounting to determine the amount(s) attributable to this plan-trust. Any
interest income or investment earnings attributable to any of these accounts
shall be additional compensation to the person that holds such account.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
PLAN-TRUSTEE’S DUTIES
§ 36.050 PLAN-TRUSTEE MUST DEFEND THE PLAN-TRUST.
   The plan-trustee must defend the plan-trust in any action at law or in
equity that asserts or alleges that the plan-trust is not a valid entity or is
in any other way illegal or void or voidable. The plan-trustee is entitled to
pay from or be reimbursed by the plan-trust assets all of his, her or its
actual expenses incurred relating to the defense of the plan-trust.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.051 PLAN-TRUSTEE MUST HOLD INVESTMENTS.
   The plan-trustee must maintain ownership of the investments. To the extent
of investments under a group trust, collective investment fund or other pooled
investment, the plan-trustee’s participation (whether or not measured by shares
or units) in the group-trust, collective investment fund or other pooled
investment is the form of ownership.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.052 PLAN-TRUSTEE HAS NO INVESTMENT DUTIES.
   (A)   The plan-trustee has no investment duties under the plan-trust. Except
for use of a processing account, the plan-trustee shall not invest any money or
property of the plan-trust other than under the investments selected by the
employer as instructed by participants and beneficiaries.
   (B)   The parties acknowledge that the plan requires participants and
beneficiaries to direct the investment of their plan accounts among the plan
investment and any funds or options under those investments. The employer is
responsible for the selection of the plan investments. The plan-trustee has no
duty to consider the prudence of any investment of any kind. The plan-trustee
has no duty to and shall not inquire into any participant’s or beneficiary’s
investment direction.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
PLAN-TRUSTEE’S POWERS
§ 36.065 PLAN-TRUSTEE’S POWERS.
   Subject to the limitations stated by §§
36.080 through
36.083 and otherwise by this plan-trust declaration, the plan-trustee has all
powers provided by any applicable statute and otherwise at law or in equity
(including the common law), and has the following specified powers in addition
to and not by limitation upon any such powers.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.066 POWERS TO USE INVESTMENTS.
   The plan-trustee delegates to the plan administrator and the agent authority
to exercise any of the plan-trustee’s rights or powers under the investments.
The plan-trustee shall oversee the Plan Administrator’s and the agent’s actions
so as to have reasonable assurance that the investments are used according to
the plan and not for any improper purpose.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.067 GENERAL POWERS.
   The plan-trustee may require the employer and the Plan Administrator, and
any other person involved in the administration of the plan, and any person
having any interest under the plan, to furnish such certifications of facts as
shall permit the plan-trustee to perform his, her or its duties under this
plan-trust declaration or under any applicable law. The plan-trustee has power
to make, execute and deliver as plan-trustee any and all contracts, waivers,
releases or other instruments in writing and to do all other acts as plan-
trustee that the plan-trustee considers necessary or appropriate in carrying
out any of the above powers or any duty or power under this plan-trust
declaration or otherwise at law or in equity. The plan-trustee has power to
adjust, settle, contest, compromise and arbitrate any claims, debts or damages
due or owing to or from the plan-trust, and to sue, commence or defend any
legal proceedings relating to the plan-trust.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.068 POWER TO EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTANTS AND COUNSEL.
   Subject to the enabling statute and applicable local government procurement
law, the plan-trustee has power to employ (at the expense of the plan-trust)
suitable agents, accountants, attorneys, lawyers, legal assistants, consultants
and counsel of any kind; and to pay their fees or expenses and compensation out
of the plan-trust assets, or to reimburse the Plan Administrator for any such
fees or expenses and compensation it has already paid if the Plan Administrator
instructs the plan-trustee that the Plan Administrator incurred or if the plan-
trustee incurred such expense for the purpose of plan or plan-trust
administration. The plan-trustee may consult with counsel (who may be counsel
for the plan administrator or the plan sponsor or any employer, but must not be
counsel for the agent or any issuer), and the plan-trustee shall not be deemed
imprudent by reason of his, her or its taking or refraining from taking any
action according to the opinion of such counsel. For this purpose, any
information furnished by the agent or any issuer, including information
furnished by counsel for either of them, cannot be considered as legal advice
or counsel of any kind. The plan-trustee has power to waive any conflict-of-
interest arising out of the circumstances that counsel to the plan-trustee also
may be or is counsel to the plan administrator and the employer.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
PLAN-TRUSTEE’S LIMITATIONS
§ 36.080 ONLY INVESTMENTS.
   The plan-trustee shall not invest any money or property of the plan-trust
other than under an investment or a processing account.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.081 EMPLOYER SENDS CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Each participating employer sends contributions to the custodial-trustee or
his, her or its agent to be invested under the investments. The plan-trustee
shall not receive any contributions.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.082 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR DELIVERS INVESTMENT DIRECTIONS.
   The plan-trustee shall not give any investment direction or instruction of
any kind, except as instructed by the plan administrator or the agent.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.083 EXCLUSIVE BENEFIT.
   To the extent required by I.R.C. § 457(g), the plan-trustee has no power to
use or divert any part of the plan-trust assets or income to purposes other
than for the exclusive benefit of the participants and their beneficiaries
under the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
PLAN-TRUSTEE’S COMPENSATION
§ 36.095 PLAN-TRUSTEE SERVES WITHOUT COMPENSATION.
   The plan-trustee shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.096 PLAN-TRUSTEE’S SPECIAL EXPENSES.
    In addition to (and not by limitation upon) any other provision of this
plan-trust declaration concerning payment or reimbursement of plan-trust
expenses, the plan-trustee shall have special expenses paid by the employer as
provided below.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.097 ACCOUNTING.
   If, because a final court order finds §
36.110 invalid, or for any other reason, the plan-trustee must prepare an
accounting other than as provided by §
36.110, the plan-trustee shall prepare the accounting in the form required by
the court or by the Plan Administrator, and the plan-trustee is entitled to pay
from or be reimbursed by the plan-trust assets all of his, her or its actual
expenses based upon the actual fees paid to agents, accountants, consultants,
lawyers and legal assistants and counsel of any kind who perform services
regarding the accounting.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.098 DEFENSE OF THE PLAN-TRUST.
   (A)   If, pursuant to §
36.050 or otherwise, the plan-trustee defends the plan-trust in any proceeding
at law or in equity (or against any threatened proceeding), the plan-trustee is
entitled to pay from or be reimbursed by the plan-trust assets all of his, her
or its actual expenses based upon the actual fees paid to agents, accountants,
consultants, lawyers and legal assistants and counsel of any kind who perform
services regarding the defense.
   (B)   For any such special expense, whether under §
36.097 or this section or otherwise, it is intended that the plan-trust provide
reasonably incurred actual expenses, and the plan-trustee is not required (but
is permitted) to seek any Plan Administrator approval or court approval as to
whether the expenses are reasonably incurred.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
ACCOUNTS
§ 36.110 PLAN ACCOUNTING IS PLAN-TRUST ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   Because this plan-trust declaration provides that the plan-trustee
shall not receive plan contributions, shall not make or receive repayment of
plan loans, shall have no investment duties, shall not give investment
instructions and shall not pay plan distributions, the plan-trustee need not
keep accounts of the plan-trust.
   (B)   If a court finds that this section is invalid, the plan-trustee and
the Plan Administrator shall prepare the accounting in the form required by the
court or by the Plan Administrator, and, consistent with §
36.096, the plan-trustee is entitled to pay from or be reimbursed by the plan-
trust assets all of his, her or its actual expenses incurred in preparing any
accounting.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.111 PLAN AUDITS.
   (A)   At any time, the Plan Administrator may (but is not required to)
engage an independent qualified public accountant to examine the plan’s
financial statements or internal control procedures. If the Plan Administrator
engages an independent accountant, the Plan Administrator must require that
such engagement provide that the examination be made according to generally
accepted auditing principles (or according to agreed-upon procedures that the
plan-trustee approves in writing), and that the plan-trustee is entitled to
rely upon the accountant’s examination and opinion and all reports relating to
the examination.
   (B)   The Plan Administrator acknowledges that, since the plan-trustee does
not handle transactions under the investments and does not keep accounts of the
plan-trust, an examination by the independent qualified public accountant may
be the only means by which the Plan Administrator and the plan-trustee may
receive any assurance concerning the correctness of transactions and amounts
under the plan investments.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.112 COURT ACCOUNTING.
   Except as otherwise ordered by a court having jurisdiction, no person, other
than the Plan Administrator, may require an accounting by the plan-trustee. If
any accounting is requested or required under this section, the plan-trustee
and the Plan Administrator shall prepare the accounting in the form required by
the court or by the Plan Administrator, and, consistent with §
36.096, the plan-trustee is entitled to pay from or be reimbursed by the plan-
trust assets all of his, her or its actual expenses incurred in preparing any
accounting.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.113 COURT-SETTLED ACCOUNTING OR INSTRUCTIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything in this plan-trust declaration to the contrary, the
plan-trustee has the absolute right at any time to petition any appropriate
court for a settlement of the plan-trust’s accounts or otherwise for the
court’s instructions in executing the plan-trustee’s obligations under the
plan-trust created by this plan-trust declaration. The only necessary party is
the Plan Administrator, but the plan-trustee may bring in, as a party, any
other person or entity.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
OTHER PROVISIONS
§ 36.125 ACCOUNTS.
   Consistent with §
36.110, the plan-trustee has no duty to prepare any account under the plan-
trust.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.126 ACTION OF PLAN-TRUSTEE.
   The plan-trustee may authorize any of the employer’s officers or employees
to execute documents on his, her or its behalf.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.127 ALLOCATION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Any party to the plan-trust declaration, and any party acting
regarding the plan-trust, shall have only those specific powers, duties,
responsibilities and obligations specifically provided by the plan-trust
declaration, or that are expressly required under the plan, to the extent that
the plan is not inconsistent with the plan-trust declaration.
   (B)   The employer and the Plan Administrator and the plan-trustee each
warrants to every other party and the agent that any instruction or direction
given, information furnished or action taken by it is according to the
provisions of the plan-trust declaration. Each party and the agent may rely
upon any such instruction, direction, information or action of any other party
as being proper under the plan-trust declaration and the plan and for all
purposes. The party is not required to inquire into the correctness or
propriety of any such instruction, direction, information or action.
   (C)   Each party is fully protected in any action taken or not taken by it
and cannot be deemed imprudent by reason of taking or refraining from taking
any action in good faith pursuant to its reasonable reliance upon the advice of
its counsel, provided that the party exercised reasonable due care in its
selection of its counsel.
   (D)   Each party is responsible only for the proper exercise of its own
powers, duties, responsibilities and obligations, and any party is not liable
for any act or failure to act of another party, except as provided below.
   (E)   The agent is not liable for a breach of fiduciary responsibility of
any person under any circumstances, including (but not limited to) the agent’s
actual knowledge of the breach. The agent is not responsible to inform any
person concerning any knowledge of any breach.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.128 ANTI-ALIENATION.
   In addition to (and not by limitation upon) the provisions of the plan and
the enabling statute and other applicable law, any interest available under the
plan-trust, or any right to receive or instruct payments under the plan-trust,
or any distribution or payment made under the plan or distribution or payment
made under the plan-trust is not (either at law or in equity) subject to
assignment or alienation of any kind, whether by the voluntary or involuntary
act of any interested person under the plan or plan-trust, except as expressly
authorized by the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.129 AUDIT.
   Notwithstanding any provision of §§
36.110 through
36.113 and without limiting the effect of any provision of §§
36.110 through
36.113 or any other provision of this plan-trust declaration, the plan-trustee
may (but is not required to) engage a public accountant to audit or review the
financial statements of and internal control procedures with respect to the
plan-trust, and any fees paid or incurred for such audit or review and related
accounting and auditing services shall be a plan-trust expense charged to all
(or substantially all) participants’ plan accounts in an equitable manner
determined by the Plan Administrator.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.130 BONDING.
   The plan-trustee is not required to give any bond or other security in any
jurisdiction for the faithful performance of his, her or its duties under the
plan-trust declaration. However, if any bond is required for any purpose, no
surety shall be required on any bond.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.131 CONSTRUCTION.
   The plan-trust declaration shall be construed and interpreted according to
§§
35.080 through
35.088.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.132 COURSE OF DEALING DOES NOT CHANGE AGREEMENT.
   Any course of dealing between or among any persons having any interest in or
serving under the plan-trust cannot change or discharge any provision of the
plan-trust declaration or any of the rights or obligations of any party. The
failure of a party to exercise or assert any right under the plan-trust
declaration shall not be deemed a waiver of any right under the plan-trust
declaration.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.133 COURT-SETTLED ACCOUNTING.
   Notwithstanding anything in this plan-trust declaration to the contrary, the
plan-trustee has the absolute right at any time to petition any appropriate
court for a settlement of the plan-trust’s accounts or otherwise for the
court’s instructions in performing or satisfying the plan-trustee’s obligations
under the plan-trust declaration. The only necessary party is the Plan
Administrator, but the plan-trustee may bring in, as a party, any other person.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.134 DEALINGS WITH THE PLAN-TRUSTEE.
   Any person or entity dealing with the plan-trustee has no obligation to
inquire concerning the validity of anything the plan-trustee purports to do,
nor any duty to see to the proper application of any money paid or any property
transferred upon the request of the plan-trustee, nor any duty to inquire into
the plan-trustee’s authority as to any transaction.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.135 DIRECTION BY PLAN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this plan-trust
declaration, the Plan Administrator shall, at all times and at any time, have
the power and the duty and obligation to instruct the plan-trustee in the
exercise of any and each of the plan-trustee’s duties or powers. The plan-
trustee is entitled to presume without inquiry or consideration of any kind
that each such instruction is proper under the plan, the enabling statute and
the Internal Revenue Code.
   (B)   When acting under any such instruction, the plan-trustee shall be free
of any and every liability whatsoever arising out of his, her or its act or
failure to act if the plan-trustee acts or declines to act according to the
Plan Administrator’s instruction(s). In the absence of an instruction by the
Plan Administrator, the plan-trustee shall exercise his or her powers
(including declining to act) in his or her own discretion, and the employer and
the Plan Administrator shall hold harmless, defend and indemnify the plan-
trustee, consistent with §
36.139, for any damages arising out of the plan-trustee’s act or failure to
act, including even a negligent or grossly negligent or willful act or failure
to act.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.136 ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The parties intend that this plan-trust declaration is the complete
and exclusive statement of the parties’ agreement and contains all
understandings on this subject. This written plan-trust declaration supersedes
all prior or contemporaneous agreements, understandings or any other
representations concerning this subject matter. There are no other
understandings between or among the parties. Everything agreed upon is fully
expressed by this written plan-trust declaration.
   (B)   Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, the plan-
trustee shall have no duties except as expressly stated by this plan-trust
declaration, and the title or position of trustee or the fact that the plan-
trustee has agreed to serve as a trustee shall not be construed to create or
recognize any implied covenant or obligation.
   (C)   The agent has no duties except as expressly specified by the service
agreement. The agent is not a fiduciary for any purpose, except to the extent
provided by applicable insurance law to the extent that a processing account is
an insurance producer processing account under that law.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.137 EXPENSES.
   The plan-trustee and the plan administrator shall be reimbursed from the
plan-trust assets for any actual expense (including, by example and not by
limitation, actual fees of lawyers and legal assistants, accountants, auditors,
proxy solicitors or other consultants) reasonably incurred in performing
services with respect to the plan or the plan-trust. Without limiting the
comprehensive effect of the foregoing, all of the provisions of the plan
concerning expenses are incorporated into and made a part of this plan-trust
declaration by reference. Except as otherwise ordered by the court, the expense
reimbursement shall be effected by deducting a charge against all (or
substantially all) participants’ plan accounts according to an equitable method
determined by the plan administrator.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.138 GOVERNING LAW.
   This plan-trust declaration shall be governed by and construed, to the
extent that any construction beyond the written provisions of the plan-trust
declaration (including § 36.131) is necessary, and enforced according to the
internal laws (without regard to the law of conflicts) of the state or
jurisdiction of which the employer is an agency or political subdivision for
contracts made and wholly performed in such state or jurisdiction.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.139 INDEMNIFICATION.
   For any plan-trustee who is or was an employee of the plan sponsor or any
employer, the plan-trustee’s service with respect to the plan-trust shall be
treated as official duties, and the plan-trustee shall be entitled to relief
from liability and defense and indemnification to the same extent as provided
for a government officer or employee in the conduct of his or her official
duties.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.140 LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.
   (A)   The employer and the plan administrator understand that the plan-
trustee’s duties under this plan-trust declaration are solely ministerial.
   (B)   The plan-trustee shall not be responsible for any act or omission of
the plan-trustee, including the plan-trustee’s own willful non-feasance,
misfeasance, malfeasance, unless such act or omission is a breach of the plan-
trustee’s standard of care under §
36.153.
   (C)   The plan-trustee shall not be responsible for any act or omission of
any predecessor plan-trustee.
   (D)   The plan-trustee shall not be responsible for any act or omission of
any nominee, custodian, depository, accountant, counsel or agent selected with
reasonable care.
   (E)   The plan-trustee shall not be responsible for any selection, decision
or instruction made by the employer or the Plan Administrator.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.141 MISTAKEN CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Without consent by or notice to the plan-trustee, if any contribution (or
any portion of a contribution) is made by the employer or an employer by a good
faith mistake of fact as provided by the plan, upon receipt in good order of a
proper request by the Plan Administrator or the employer, the agent may pay to
the employer the amount so requested for the purpose of returning a mistaken
contribution under the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.142 NO PLAN DUTIES.
   Notwithstanding any reference to the plan, the duties and obligations of the
plan-trustee are limited to those expressly stated by the plan-trust
declaration. The plan-trustee is not a party to the plan. The plan-trustee has
no duty of any kind to read or have any knowledge of the plan. The plan-trustee
shall act solely according to the provisions of the plan-trust declaration
together with applicable law.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.143 NO RIGHT OTHER THAN UNDER PLAN.
   The establishment of the plan-trust and the purchase of any investment under
the plan-trust is not to be construed as giving to any participant or
beneficiary or other person any legal or equitable right; the rights of
participants and beneficiaries are solely under the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.144 NON-INVOLVEMENT IN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The plan-trustee shall not have any duty to interfere or become in any
way involved in the management or conduct of the affairs or business of any
business organization or investment organization or entity in which any plan-
trust assets may be invested, even if the trustee has the controlling interest
in such organization or entity.
   (B)   However, subsection (A) above shall not be construed to excuse the
plan-trustee from asserting the plan-trust’s rights if the plan-trustee has
actual knowledge that an organization or entity has willfully defaulted on an
obligation owing to the plan-trust. However, this section shall not apply to
the extent that its application would cause the plan to fail to meet the
requirements of I.R.C. § 457(b)(6) and I.R.C. § 457(g).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.145 NOTICES.
   (A)   Requests for information, instructions, notices of any kind, claims or
demands, legal process and court orders (each referred to in the plan-trust
declaration as a “notice”) are properly made when given in the form provided
below and addressed to the applicable party and to the name and address
specified by the plan or otherwise in or according to this plan-trust
declaration.
   (B)   To be legally effective, any notice given or delivered under this
agreement must be in writing and is deemed given if delivered personally
(including a signed-for delivery made by a courier) or if mailed by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) or if delivered or transmitted by
any other means that includes acknowledgment or proof of delivery. Any such
notice is deemed given when actually received, but a receipt indicating that
delivery was refused is deemed actual delivery.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.146 PROHIBITED TRANSACTION.
   The plan-trustee may (but is not required to) establish a procedure for the
periodic review of directed investments and any other plan-trust investments to
determine, in light of the facts and circumstances known to the plan-trustee,
whether any actual or proposed investment constitutes or would constitute a
prohibited transaction within the meaning of I.R.C. § 503. If the plan-trustee,
in his, her or its sole discretion, finds that any investment constitutes or
would constitute a prohibited transaction, the plan-trustee shall promptly give
notice to the employer, and shall recommend that the employer prevent or
dispose of the investment or otherwise prevent or remedy the transaction. If
the employer fails to prevent or remedy a transaction that the plan-trustee
finds is a prohibited transaction, the plan-trustee may (but is not required
to) take any action required or permitted by applicable law. However, if the
plan-trustee finds that a prohibited transaction causes or would cause the
plan-trust to be maintained other than for the exclusive benefit of
participants and their beneficiaries or otherwise contrary to §
36.004, the plan-trustee shall take such action as is sufficient to cause the
plan-trust to be maintained for the exclusive benefit of participants and their
beneficiaries.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.147 PROTECTION OF ISSUERS.
   Any issuer shall not be liable in acting according to any instruction, if in
writing or otherwise reasonably believed to be genuine, of its contract owner
or other person that has the right to give instructions under the terms of the
investment, and shall not be required to question (unless otherwise provided by
the applicable investment), any action or inaction so instructed. The issuer
shall not be required to take or permit any action or allow any benefit or
privilege contrary to the terms of any investment which it may issue regarding
the plan.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.148 PROXY VOTING.
   The plan-trustee shall not have any duty to vote his, her or its shares or
units or other interest in any fund or investment or any business organization
or investment organization or entity in which any plan-trust assets may be
invested. If the plan-trustee, in his, her or its sole and absolute discretion
and free of any fiduciary duty, decides to vote any shares or units or other
interest, the plan-trustee may (but need not) seek participants’ and
beneficiaries’ (and other investors’) instructions or wishes concerning the
plan-trustee’s voting of any shares or units or other interest. Any voting is
not subject to any fiduciary duty. However, this section shall not apply to the
extent that its application would cause the plan to fail to meet the
requirements of I.R.C. § 457(b)(6) and I.R.C. § 457(g).
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.149 RESTITUTION AND RESTORATION.
   In addition to (and not by limitation upon) any other remedy, including (but
not limited to) any legal, equitable, remedial or other relief to the extent
that any person breaches if §
30.021, such person shall be personally liable to make good to the plan-trust
(or, in an appropriate case, to the applicable participant or beneficiary or
alternate payee) any losses to the plan-trust resulting from or arising out of
each such breach, and to restore to the plan any profits of such person which
have been made through the breaching person’s improper use of plan-trust assets
or income.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.150 RULE AGAINST ACCUMULATIONS.
   Following §
36.151, the rule against accumulations does not apply to the plan-trust.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.151 RULE AGAINST PERPETUITIES.
   The rule against perpetuities does not apply to the plan-trust.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.152 SEPARABILITY.
   If a court finds that any provision of the plan-trust declaration is
invalid, the plan-trust declaration shall be construed and enforced as if the
invalid provision was not a provision of the plan-trust declaration unless the
court finds or the plan-trustee finds that such a construction of the plan-
trust declaration would be clearly contrary to the intent of the plan-trust
declaration or would be contrary to I.R.C. § 457(g) or would violate the
enabling statute.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.153 STANDARD OF CARE.
   (A)   The plan-trustee shall discharge his, her or its limited duties under
this plan-trust declaration with the diligence under the circumstances then
prevailing that a prudent person acting as a ministerial trustee of a trust for
which the trustee had no duties other than to maintain record title of the
trust property would use in the conduct of a like trust with a like aim to the
purpose stated by §
36.002.
   (B)   The plan-trustee’s duties under this plan-trust declaration are solely
ministerial. Without limiting the comprehensive effect of the above, all
parties understand that the plan-trustee has no duty, express or implied, to
review any investment or any investment, banking, securities or insurance
transaction, and, therefore, shall have no liability for any failure to review
any transaction.
   (C)   Further, notwithstanding any ministerial duties of the plan-trustee
provided under this plan-trust declaration or any duties required or rights
permitted under applicable investment law, the plan-trustee shall not have any
knowledge of any investment or of any transaction. Therefore, if “knowledge” of
the plan-trustee is or may be a prerequisite to imposing a duty upon or an
element in determining any liability of the plan-trustee at law or in equity,
the fact that the plan-trustee has possession of (or had or has a legal or
equitable right to possess or obtain) any record of any investment or any
transaction shall not constitute “knowledge” of the plan-trustee.
   (D)   If, for any reason, a court finds this provision void or legally
unenforceable, the plan-trustee may resign on one business days’ written notice
to the employer. Also, any indemnification rights shall apply on the basis that
it was reasonable for any person to assume that this section is legally
enforceable until the supreme court or the highest court of the state or
jurisdiction expressly orders otherwise.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.154 TAXES.
   All taxes of any kind (including, but not limited to, income tax, gift tax,
estate tax, inheritance tax or similar transfer taxes of any kind, real or
personal property tax, insurance premium tax or transfer tax incurred in
connection with the investment, reinvestment or distribution of any plan-trust
assets) that may be levied or assessed upon the plan-trust, its income or
assets, shall, if allocable to the account of a particular participant or
beneficiary, be charged to that plan account, and if not so allocable, shall be
charged proportionately to all plan accounts, and shall be paid from the plan-
trust and charged against the applicable account or all accounts. However, the
plan-trustee is not obliged to pay any tax so long as it contests the validity
of the tax.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.155 THIRD PARTY RELIANCE.
   Any person receiving property from, delivering property to or having any
other transaction with the plan-trustee is not required to consider the
propriety of the acts of the plan-trustee or inquire into the application of
the property or money received by the plan-trustee, as long as the person is
acting in good faith.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.156 VENUE.
   For any action at law or in equity in which the plan-trustee is a party,
exclusive jurisdiction and exclusive venue shall be in the courts sitting in
and for the district in which the plan-trustee has his, her or its principal
place of business.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION
§ 36.170 AMENDMENT OF PLAN-TRUST.
   The employer may amend this plan-trust declaration at any time and without
the consent of any other person. Any amendment must be in writing. However, any
amendment that would diminish the protection of §
36.004 is absolutely void.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.171 TERMINATION OF PLAN-TRUST.
   The plan-trust is permanent and irrevocable, except as provided below.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.172 NO ASSETS.
   The plan-trustee may terminate the plan-trust if every investment is closed
or terminated or settled, and there are no successor investments, and there is
no other plan-trust asset.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
§ 36.173 COURT ORDER.
   The plan-trust may be terminated at any time upon court order by any
appropriate court of the state or of the United States. Upon such termination,
the plan-trust investments shall be transferred or used as instructed by the
court.
(Ord. NIRC 97-1, passed 1-15-1997)
TITLE V: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   STATE GIFT BAN POLICY
      
52.   NEPOTISM POLICY
      
53.   WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY
      
54.   BOARD TRAVEL POLICY
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Deviation from non-contract employee handbook
Job Promotion and Lateral Transfer Policy
   
50.015   Approval
   
50.016   Authority to revise
   
50.017   Objective
   
50.018   Eligibility
   
50.019   Procedure
New Hire Policy
   
50.030   Eligibility
   
50.031   Committee’s role
   
50.032   Non-contract hires or promotions
   
50.033   Proposed hiring resolutions
   
50.034   Urgent circumstances
   
50.035   Salary increase
   
50.036   Non-cash benefits threshold
   
50.037   Implementation of class and compensation programs
   
50.038   Salary posting
   
50.039   Expiration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEVIATION FROM NON-CONTRACT EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   (A)   The Board hereby establishes a policy that requires the Executive
Director to receive consent from the Board before the Executive Director
exercises a waiver of or deviates from the vacation carry-over/buy-out, sick
leave reserve cash-out, job postings or the revolving door policies or
procedures set forth in the handbook.
   (B)   This policy shall become effective immediately.
(Ord. NIRC 10-01, passed 9-17-2010)
JOB PROMOTION AND LATERAL TRANSFER POLICY
§ 50.015 APPROVAL.
   The enclosed promotion and lateral transfer policy, which waives the job
posting requirements, is approved.
(Ord. NIRC 15-01, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 50.016 AUTHORITY TO REVISE.
   (A)   The Executive Director has the authority to revise the policy from
time to time, but must notify the Board of Directors of any revised policy.
   (B)   This policy is effective November 1, 2015.
(Ord. NIRC 15-01, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 50.017 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   Metra may offer non-contract employees promotions to higher-level
positions, or lateral transfers, when appropriate, not to exceed the equivalent
of the Director level, but Metra reserves the right to recruit from outside the
agency. Promotions are defined as appointments to positions that are classified
at a higher grade level and require greater qualifications, skills or
experience, and they are accompanied by an increased rate of pay and a title
change. LATERAL TRANSFERS are defined as the movement of employees to another
position within a department or between departments, with a similar level of
responsibility and within the same salary grade.
   (B)   The Executive Director retains the discretion to make exceptions to
this policy when deemed necessary or in the company’s best interest.
   (C)   Metra is committed to promoting or laterally transferring the most
qualified employees within the organization without regard to race, color, sex,
sexual orientation, national origin, religion, age, disability, genetic
information, marital or veteran status or any other protected category.
(Ord. NIRC 15-01, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 50.018 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Promotion decisions will be based on demonstrated increased
responsibility and job performance in the employee’s current position; lateral
transfer decisions will be based on demonstrated responsibility and job
performance in the current position.
   (B)   In evaluating current employees for promotion and lateral transfer,
the following factors will be considered:
      (1)   Attendance and work records;
      (2)   Performance evaluations (must have been rated “meets expectations”
or higher for two years prior to the promotion/lateral transfer date);
      (3)   Time in current position (employees must have held their current
position for at least two years);
      (4)   Job-related qualifications (i.e., the candidate must demonstrate
that he or she is either currently performing or is capable of performing the
responsibilities at the next highest rank for promotions or the same rank for
lateral transfers); and
      (5)   Disciplinary record (i.e., employees must not have written
disciplinary actions 12 months prior to the date of promotion or lateral
transfer).
   (C)   A list of positions eligible for promotion/lateral transfer status
shall be established and maintained by the Human Resources Department and made
available to employees on Metra’s intranet.
(Ord. NIRC 15-01, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 50.019 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Promotional opportunities may involve managers interviewing qualified
candidates using objective criteria or, where appropriate, without interviews,
in recognition of career advancement to the next highest rank within the job
class and/or occupational category (i.e., direct lateral progressive
promotions) or, in the case of lateral transfers, to the same job
classification and grade within the department or another department. The
department head shall select the most qualified applicant for consideration for
promotion or lateral transfer using the criteria outlined above, and shall
submit supporting documentation to the Chief Human Resources Officer and the
Senior Director of EEO and Diversity Initiatives, or their equivalent, for
review to affirm that the promotion or lateral transfer was made consistent
with the policy and procedures. All promotions and lateral transfers must be
approved by the Executive Director, or his or her designee. Employees who are
candidates for promotion must meet all minimum qualifications outlined in the
job description of the higher classification or, in the case of lateral
transfers, of the same classification. The EEO Department shall keep and make
available to executive management statistical data of promotions and lateral
transfers based on protected class.
   (B)   Promoted and laterally transferred employees will be subject to a 90-
day probation period.
(Ord. NIRC 15-01, passed 10-15-2015)
NEW HIRE POLICY
§ 50.030 ELIGIBILITY.
   The recital is hereby incorporated herein: the Board (“Board”) of the
Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation (“Metra”) seeks to
adopt the recitals and provisions of Ord. MET 13-03 passed by the Board of the
Commuter Rail Division (the “CRD Board”).
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.031 COMMITTEE’S ROLE.
   In accordance with its charter, the Employment Practices Committee of the
Board of the Commuter Rail Division (“Committee”) shall review any proposed
future compensation and benefits policies. The Committee shall also be
consulted before the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer (“ED/CEO”)
takes final action as noted in §
50.036. In addition to the powers set forth in the Committee charter, the
Committee Chairperson will have hiring approval authority as set forth in §
50.034.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.032 NON-CONTRACT HIRES OR PROMOTIONS.
   For any non-contract new hires or promotions at the annual rate of pay of
over $75,000 (the “salary threshold amount”), the ED/CEO will submit a proposed
hiring resolution in open session to the full CRD Board during regularly
scheduled CRD Board meetings. All such employment offers will be contingent
upon approval of the proposed hiring resolution by the full CRD Board and no
employment (new hires or promotions) can commence before CRD Board approval.
The salary threshold amount shall increase 3% annually beginning on January 1,
2014.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.033 PROPOSED HIRING RESOLUTIONS.
   The proposed hiring resolution shall contain for each identified employee
the following information, as applicable: name, title and proposed salary. It
will also include proposed vacation days, proposed personal time off (“PTO”)
days, proposed relocation expense reimbursement and any other benefit being
offered to the employee should such benefit(s) exceed those reflected in
Metra’s non-contract employee’s handbook. Some candidates for employment may
request their name to be confidential until immediately prior to the time that
their hiring is confirmed by the CRD Board. In such situations, the candidate’s
approval may first be considered by the CRD Board in executive session pursuant
to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, and, in such case, the candidate’s name
shall not be made public until after such executive session. The candidate’s
name shall then be made public before the CRD Board votes on the proposed
hiring resolution.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.034 URGENT CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Under urgent circumstances, including, but not limited to, instances where
vacancies will likely result in financial waste, interruption of service, loss
of a qualified candidate or will affect the safety of passengers, special
approval for the hiring or promotion of an employee may be granted, at the
request of the ED/CEO, by joint concurrence of the CRD Board Chairperson and
the Committee Chairperson for an employee to be hired before full CRD Board
approval. In such circumstances, the employee’s information, as set forth in §
50.033, will be placed on the proposed hiring resolution at the next CRD Board
meeting for full CRD Board ratification.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.035 SALARY INCREASE.
   If the ED/CEO seeks to give a salary increase (excluding promotions) to an
existing non-contract employee in an existing non-contract position which
exceeds 9% of the employee’s current annual gross salary, the ED/CEO must
obtain approval of the full CRD Board. Such requests for approval of annual
salary increases exceeding 9% shall be included as a subsection of the monthly
proposed hiring resolution.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.036 NON-CASH BENEFITS THRESHOLD.
   The ED/CEO is authorized up to $100,000 annually in the aggregate (the “non-
cash benefits threshold amount”) to provide non-cash benefits to employees to
recognize exceptional work and further employee recognition programs. The non-
cash benefits threshold amount shall increase 3% annually beginning on January
1, 2014. Prior to the establishment of any proposed program(s) that would
exceed the non-cash benefits threshold amount, the ED/CEO must consult with the
Committee. All other benefits shall be provided in accordance with Metra’s non-
contract employee’s handbook and any applicable ordinances. The non-cash
benefits threshold amount established in this section is inclusive of, and not
in addition to, the non-cash benefits threshold amount established by paragraph
7 of Ord. MET 13-03.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.037 IMPLEMENTATION OF CLASS AND COMPENSATION PROGRAMS.
   The ED/CEO is authorized to implement class and compensation programs
provided that the CRD Board has pre-approved the aggregate class and
compensation line item in the budget; and the combination of a general pay
increase and a class and compensation increase shall never exceed 9% in any
single year for a non-contract employee without CRD Board approval.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.038 SALARY POSTING.
   Salary information for all Metra employees will be posted in a readily
available location on the Metra website.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
§ 50.039 EXPIRATION.
   Sections 50.030 through 50.036 and 50.038 will expire upon the expiration of
paragraphs 1 through 7 and 9 of Ord. MET 13-03.
(Ord. NIRC 13-01, passed 3-15-2013)
CHAPTER 51: STATE GIFT BAN POLICY
Section
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Prohibited political activities
   
51.003   Gift ban
   
51.004   Exceptions
   
51.005   Disposition of gifts
   
51.006   Ethics Advisor
   
51.007   Enforcement - violation by employee
   
51.008   Enforcement - violation by official
   
51.009   Investigation
 
   
51.999   Penalty
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice-
Presidential electors, but does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 3
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by Metra, whether on a full-time or part-time
basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction and
control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work is
to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Rail Corporation
(“Metra”).
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value, including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink and honoraria for speaking engagements related
to or attributable to government employment or the official position of an
officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a County
Clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; and
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action:
         (a)   By an officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With the officer; or
         (b)   With an employee, or with the officer or another employee
directing that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By the officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 51.002 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of Metra in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      (1)   As part of that officer or employee’s duties;
      (2)   As a condition of employment; or
      (3)   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required, at any time, to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment
or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional
compensation or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in
any prohibited political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)   No person shall be denied or deprived of employment solely because he
or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a political party
or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 GIFT BAN.
   Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or employee, and no spouse
of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee (collectively
referred to herein as “recipients”) shall intentionally solicit or accept any
gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is otherwise
prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer
or make a gift that violates this section.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Section 51.003 is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
      (3)   Any:
         (a)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
         (b)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancée;
      (7)   (a)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship.
         (b)   In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of
personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the circumstances under which
the gift was offered, such as:
            1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            2.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            3.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
      (8)   (a)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on
a single calendar day, provided that the food or refreshments are:
            1.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
            2.   Catered.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, CATERED means food or
refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this Act, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and
      (12)   Any item or items from anyone prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   (B)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 DISPOSITION OF GIFTS.
   An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member
living with the officer or employee does not violate this chapter if the
recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited
source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an
appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under I.R.C. § 501(c)
(3), as now or hereafter amended, renumbered or succeeded.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   The General Counsel is designated as the Ethics Advisor for Metra.
   (B)   The Ethics Advisor shall:
      (1)   If required by law, review statements of economic interest and
disclosure forms of senior employees and employees who monitor contracts;
      (2)   Provide guidance to employees in the interpretation and
implementation of this chapter or the Act; and
      (3)   Perform all other duties required of an Ethics Advisor under this
chapter or the Act.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 51.007 ENFORCEMENT - VIOLATION BY EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a written, signed and notarized complaint alleging
that an employee other than the Executive Director violated this chapter, the
Executive Director shall direct the General Counsel to appoint counsel to
investigate and report on the alleged violation to the Executive Director. The
investigating counsel shall determine if, based upon the evidence, there is
probable cause that a violation has occurred.
   (B)   If prosecution is warranted and/or the internal disciplinary process
should be initiated after reviewing the report, the Executive Director shall
direct the general counsel to:
      (1)   Contact the attorney general or the state’s attorney for
prosecution;
      (2)   If necessary, appoint special counsel to prosecute the manner
judicially; and/or
      (3)   Recommend the matter for handling by the appropriate internal
disciplinary process.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 51.008 ENFORCEMENT - VIOLATION BY OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a written, signed and notarized complaint alleging
that the Executive Director or a Board member violated this chapter, any other
Board member(s) may direct the General Counsel to appoint counsel to
investigate and report on the alleged violation to the Board in executive
session for consideration. The investigating counsel shall determine if, based
upon the evidence, there is probable cause that a violation has occurred.
   (B)   If prosecution is warranted and/or an internal disciplinary process
should be initiated after reviewing the report, the Board shall direct the
general counsel to:
      (a)   Contact the attorney general or the state’s attorney for
prosecution;
      (b)   If necessary, appoint special counsel to prosecute the manner
judicially; and/or
      (c)   Appoint special counsel to recommend to the Board the appropriate
procedure to handle the matter internally.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 51.009 INVESTIGATION.
   An investigation may not be initiated more than one year after the most
recent act of the alleged violation, except where there is reasonable cause to
believe that fraudulent concealment has occurred. To constitute fraudulent
concealment sufficient to toll this limitation period, there must be an
affirmative act or representation calculated to prevent discovery of the fact
that a violation has occurred.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
51.002 may be punished by a Class A misdemeanor, being a term of incarceration
in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than
364 days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (B)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §§
51.003 through
51.005 is subject to a business offense and subject to a fine in an amount of
not less than $1,001 and not more than $5,000.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the Executive Director, Board, the Attorney
General, State’s Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished
by a Class A misdemeanor, being a term of incarceration in a penal institution
other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be
fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (D)   If a violation of §
51.002 is prosecuted by Metra, it shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by
an attorney for Metra by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   (E)   If Metra prosecutes an §§
51.003 through
51.005 violation, an attorney for Metra shall prosecute it as a quasi-criminal
offense.
   (F)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge as authorized.
(Ord. NIRC 04-01, passed 5-11-2004)
CHAPTER 52: NEPOTISM POLICY
Section
   
52.001   Purpose
   
52.002   Definition
   
52.003   Notification to Executive Director
   
52.004   Failure to report relationship
§ 52.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Metra is committed to ensuring that all job opportunities are based
solely on individual merit and qualifications. Employees and applicants for
employment shall not be denied employment or advancement opportunities because
of their status as a family or household member of another employee. However,
the relatives of employees must not receive any preferential treatment in the
employment process. Relatives must follow the same employment procedures as
other candidates and will only be considered if they meet the job
qualifications of the position for which they are applying, or when being
considered for promotion, reclassification and the like. Relatives must not be
hired, promoted or transferred to a permanent position or department where they
would be the immediate supervisor or receive direct supervision from a related
person, unless the circumstances are extenuating, and approval is secured from
the Executive Director and the Board.
   (B)   Examples of such circumstances are: the requirement for a special or
unique skill that the relative has acquired, lack of other available or
appropriate supervisory personnel, union labor agreements that guarantee job
placements based upon seniority and other extraordinary situations.
   (C)   In such cases, the Executive Director will re-assign the reporting
relationship and the Human Resources Department will monitor all employment
actions involving these employees in order to avoid favoritism or the
appearance of same.
   (D)   No relatives of the Board of Directors, Executive Director or any
employee that has received the level of Senior Director and above will be hired
without the consent of the Executive Director and the Board.
(Ord. NIRC 10-02, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 52.002 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RELATIVES. Spouses; domestic partners; co-habitants; children; step-
children; brothers; sisters; parents; step-parents; grandparents;
grandchildren; nieces; nephews; inlaws (husband, wife, brother, sister, mother,
father); guardians and wards; fiancés; any other member of the immediate
household, whether or not related by blood; any other relatives not defined; or
persons involved in dating relationship. In the case of an “other” relative or
“person involved in a dating relationship” to be considered for a position, the
Human Resources Department will determine if the relationship is distant enough
to be excluded from this definition.
(Ord. NIRC 10-02, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 52.003 NOTIFICATION TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   Any supervisor, manager, director, department head or superintendent and the
like, who becomes involved in a relationship covered by this policy must notify
the Human Resources Department immediately. The Human Resources Department will
secure the appropriate approvals and facilitate the handling of the matter.
(Ord. NIRC 10-02, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 52.004 FAILURE TO REPORT RELATIONSHIP.
   Any employee who knowingly violates this policy will be subject to
discipline in accordance with Metra policies, up to and including termination.
(Ord. NIRC 10-02, passed 9-17-2010)
CHAPTER 53: WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY
Section
   
53.001   Establishment
   
53.002   Purpose
   
53.003   Persons covered
   
53.004   Wrongful conduct
   
53.005   Reporting violations
   
53.006   Confidentiality of complaints
   
53.007   Prohibition against retaliation
   
53.008   Filing false reports
§ 53.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Board hereby establishes the attached whistleblower policy
(“policy”). The policy shall apply to all employees, officers and Board
members.
   (B)   The Executive Director is hereby authorized and directed to take such
as is necessary to implement and enforce this policy.
   (C)   This policy shall become effective immediately.
(Ord. NIRC 10-03, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 53.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Metra has a strong commitment to the conduct of its business in a
lawful and ethical manner. Metra’s whistleblower policy is designed to be in
compliance with the Illinois Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/1 et seq.). The
purpose of the policy is to protect persons who engage in good faith disclosure
of alleged wrongful conduct to a Metra designated official or a public body.
   (B)   The policy is intended to:
      (1)   Encourage persons to disclose serious breaches of conduct covered
by Metra policies or law;
      (2)   Inform persons how allegations of wrongful conduct can be
disclosed; and
      (3)   Protect persons from reprisal by adverse action as a result of
having disclosed wrongful conduct.
(Ord. NIRC 10-03, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 53.003 PERSONS COVERED.
   This policy shall apply to all Metra employees and Board members. This
policy shall also apply to all contractors, subcontractors, consultants and
suppliers (vendors) that do business with Metra.
(Ord. NIRC 10-03, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 53.004 WRONGFUL CONDUCT.
   The following suspected examples of wrongful conduct should be reported:
   (A)   Violations of state and/or federal laws and regulations applicable to
Metra;
   (B)   Contract and procurement fraud, or collusion involving contracts with
Metra contractors, subcontractors, suppliers or vendors;
   (C)   Misuse, embezzlement or theft of Metra property or funds;
   (D)   Bribery or acceptance of gratuities in connection with Metra
operations or transactions with vendors;
   (E)   Employee misconduct, such as misuse of official position, or
unauthorized use of Metra property for personal gain;
   (F)   Conflicts of interest; and
   (G)   Other unethical or illegal activities involving Metra property,
employees or vendors.
(Ord. NIRC 10-03, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 53.005 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   Suspected violations of law or of Metra policies may be reported to Metra’s
office of the Inspector General at the designated telephone number and website.
Suspected violations of law may also be reported to local, state or federal law
enforcement authorities.
(Ord. NIRC 10-03, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 53.006 CONFIDENTIALITY OF COMPLAINTS.
   Confidentiality of complaints received by the OIG will be maintained to the
fullest extent possible, consistent with the need to conduct appropriate
investigation. The OIG shall notify the complainant and acknowledge receipt of
the reported violation within ten business days of receipt of the complaint.
The OIG shall maintain a log of all complaints that are received, status of
investigation and resolution.
(Ord. NIRC 10-03, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 53.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST RETALIATION.
   It is essential that Metra employees and vendors are able to report
suspected violations of Metra policies or illegal activities that they become
aware of without fear that they will lose their position, hinder advancement or
be subject to retaliation by co-workers or supervisors. For purposes of this
policy, retaliation includes any action that results in reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer that occurs as the result
of any employee’s exercise of his or her rights under this policy. Retaliation
also includes any action that results in the refusal to award contracts as the
result of a vendor exercising its rights under this policy.
(Ord. NIRC 10-03, passed 9-17-2010)
§ 53.008 FILING FALSE REPORTS.
   An employee or vendor must make a reasonable attempt to ascertain the
correctness of any information that the employee or vendor reports. It is the
practice of Metra not to allow retaliation for good faith reports of wrongful
conduct, fraud, corruption or waste. It is, at the same time, unacceptable to
knowingly file a false report. Any employee who knowingly violates this
prohibition will be subject to discipline in accordance with Metra policies up
to and including termination. Any vendor who knowingly violates this
prohibition will be subject to discipline in accordance with Metra policies up
to and including debarment.
(Ord. NIRC 10-03, passed 9-17-2010)
CHAPTER 54: BOARD TRAVEL POLICY
Section
   
54.001   Allowable expenses
   
54.002   Ground travel
   
54.003   Personal vehicle usage
   
54.004   Parking and tolls
   
54.005   Rental vehicle
   
54.006   Air travel
   
54.007   Lodging
   
54.008   Business meals - local and out of region
   
54.009   Miscellaneous expenses
   
54.010   Extraordinary travel expenses
   
54.011   Approval
   
54.012   Documentation
   
54.013   Adjustments
   
54.014   Authorization to amend
§ 54.001 ALLOWABLE EXPENSES.
   The following are the allowable expense items and limits for travel expenses
that are eligible for employee reimbursement. If an employee submits an expense
report that exceeds these limits, they have exceeded the maximum allowable
reimbursement amount for travel expenses and the Board will have to approve
reimbursement.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.002 GROUND TRAVEL.
   (A)   The maximum allowable reimbursable amount for public transportation
(e.g., bus, rail and rapid transit) shall be the amount charged by the
respective transit entity.
   (B)   For taxi rides or similar methods of travel, e.g., Uber or Lyft, the
maximum allowable reimbursable amount is the amount charged by the taxi plus an
additional reasonable gratuity not to exceed 20%.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.003 PERSONAL VEHICLE USAGE.
   The maximum allowable reimbursement amount that Metra will reimburse
employees for personal vehicle use on Metra business is the IRS mileage rate
effective on the travel date.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.004 PARKING AND TOLLS.
   (A)   Metra will reimburse parking fees at an airport as an allowable travel
expense if they do not exceed round trip taxi fare (or similar service) to/from
the airport.
   (B)   Tolls are reimbursable if incurred on Metra business. The maximum
allowable amount Metra will reimburse for tolls are those tolls imposed by the
relevant tollway authority effective on the travel date. Tolls may be imputed
from the route.
   (C)   The maximum allowable reimbursement amount that Metra will reimburse
employees for parking fees is $50 per day.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.005 RENTAL VEHICLE.
   The maximum allowable reimbursement shall be no more than up to 200% of the
rates established by the General Services Administration (GSA) for destinations
within the continental United States.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.006 AIR TRAVEL.
   (A)   Tickets for air travel involve direct payment to private entities
providing transportation services. In setting maximum allowable reimbursement
amounts for air travel, Metra recognizes that the typical practice is for air
travel to be booked in advance. However, there are rare occasions when air
travel must be booked on short notice. For air travel booked more than 14 days
before travel, not including applicable taxes, Metra will reimburse 100% of the
actual air travel charges incurred, but the maximum allowable reimbursement
shall be no more than up to 200% of the rates established by the General
Services Administration (GSA) for destinations within the continental United
States and no more than 200% of the rates established by either the GSA or the
State Department for foreign countries.
   (B)   For air travel booked less than 14 days before travel, not including
applicable taxes, the maximum allowable reimbursement expense is the actual air
travel charges up to 300% of the established GSA rates for destinations within
the continental United States or up to 300% of the GSA or the State Department
established rates for foreign countries. Air travel booked less than 14 days in
advance must be approved in advance and in writing by the Executive Director/
Chief Executive Officer.
   (C)   Air travel shall be non-stop (when possible) and booked in economy
class. Air travel shall depart and arrive at the airport that is most
advantageous for Metra’s purposes and the employee’s time. First class or
business class travel is not reimbursable.
   (D)   Checked baggage fees are reimbursable as an allowable travel expense.
Receipts should be obtained for checked baggage fees. The maximum allowable
reimbursement amount that Metra will reimburse employees for these expenses is
the amount charged by the airline on the travel date.
   (E)   (1)   Additionally, the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer,
and his or her designee, may approve reimbursable air travel expenses in
“extraordinary circumstances”, as contemplated under the Act.
      (2)   Such circumstances exist when:
         (a)   Such travel is determined to be necessary and advantageous to
Metra; and
         (b)   The need for such travel could not have been reasonably
foreseen.
 
   (F)   All approvals of extraordinary circumstances shall be reported to the
Board. All approvals of extraordinary circumstances involving the travel of the
Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer shall be approved by the Board
Chairperson, or his or her designee, with a copy of such expense reported to
the Board and the Chief Audit Officer.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.007 LODGING.
   (A)   Not including applicable taxes, Metra’s maximum allowable
reimbursement amount for lodging is 200% of the established GSA per diem rates
for destinations within the continental United States or 200% of either the GSA
or the State Department established per diem rates for foreign countries.
   (B)   (1)   Additionally, the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer,
and his or her designee, may approve reimbursable lodging expenses in
“extraordinary circumstances”, as contemplated under the Act.
      (2)   Such circumstances exist if:
         (a)   The lowest cost lodging within a reasonable distance (five miles
or less) is above the maximum allowable reimbursable amount;
         (b)   It can be reasonably demonstrated that time and transit costs,
e.g., taxi fares, the total cost of staying at a hotel which exceeds the
maximum allowable rate is lower than staying at a hotel which does not; or
         (c)   A conference or event is held at a specific locale and, because
it would be necessary and advantageous to Metra, the employee should stay at
the location the event is held.
   (C)   All approvals of extraordinary circumstances shall be reported to the
Board. All approvals of extraordinary circumstances involving the travel of the
Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer shall be approved by the Board
Chairperson, or his or her designee, with a copy of such expense reported to
the Board and the Chief Audit Officer.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.008 BUSINESS MEALS - LOCAL AND OUT OF REGION.
   (A)   Regardless of whether the business meal occurs locally (with the
exception of those meals occurring on Metra property) or out of region, the
maximum allowable reimbursement amounts for business meals where only Metra
employees are present are the GSA established per diem rates for destinations
within the continental United States and either the GSA or the State Department
established per diem rates for foreign countries.
   (B)   For occasions where Metra business is being conducted and the
Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer determines it is appropriate to
entertain a non-Metra employee(s) or a Metra employee(s), the maximum allowable
reimbursable amount for business meals for each individual is the amount
reflected in the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/10-15(8),
as amended.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.009 MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES.
   Necessary postage, copying and internet charges incurred while conducting
Metra business are reimbursable. The maximum allowable reimbursement amount for
postage rates is the current rate being charged by the United States Postal
Service at the time of mailing. The maximum allowable reimbursement amount for
copying is $1 per page and for internet service is $25 per day.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.010 EXTRAORDINARY TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   There may be times that extraordinary circumstances arise requiring the
unforeseen expenditure on various travel related expenses. The Executive
Director/Chief Executive Officer may approve reimbursable expenses in
“extraordinary circumstances”, as contemplated under the Act. All approvals of
extraordinary circumstances shall be reported to the Board. All approvals of
extraordinary circumstances involving the travel of the Executive Director/
Chief Executive Officer shall be approved by the Board Chairperson, or his or
her designee, with a copy of such expense reported to the Board and the Chief
Audit Officer.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.011 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Under the Act, all travel expenses incurred by a board member must be
approved by the Board. The Board relies upon the individual judgment of each
director in determining whether travel expenses are necessary and reasonable.
   (B)   Prior to any travel expense being submitted to the Board for approval,
it must be reviewed and approved by Metra’s Internal Audit Department.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.012 DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   Under the Act, the Board is required to adopt a method to document and
approve expenses. Metra currently utilizes a “travel and related expense
report”, which complies with the requirements of the Act.
   (B)   If the aforementioned report is modified in the future, Metra shall
ensure that it continues to reflect the following information, at a minimum:
      (1)   The purpose for the travel;
      (2)   The cost of travel expenses;
      (3)   The name of the individual requesting reimbursement for travel
expenses;
      (4)   The job title or office of the individual; and
      (5)   The date the travel expenses were incurred.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.013 ADJUSTMENTS.
   All specific dollar figures included in this chapter shall be adjusted
periodically as deemed appropriate by the Chief Financial Officer, or his or
her designee, in accordance with the changes to the consumer price index for
all urban consumers or any such index deemed appropriate for use by the Chief
Finance Officer. Any adjustments shall be reported to the Executive Director,
Chief Audit Officer and the Board, along with the effective dates for such
adjustments.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
§ 54.014 AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND.
   The Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer, and his or her designees,
are authorized to develop policies or procedures that may be more restrictive
than this chapter.
(Ord. NIRC 17-03, passed 2-15-2017)
TITLE VII: FINANCES
   Chapter
      
70.   INVESTMENT POLICY
CHAPTER 70: INVESTMENT POLICY
Section
   
70.001   Investment policy
   
70.002   Scope
   
70.003   Objectives
   
70.004   Responsibility and delegation of authority
   
70.005   Prudence
   
70.006   Permitted investments
   
70.007   Diversification of investments
   
70.008   Cash flow and investment maturities
   
70.009   Selection of permitted investments
   
70.010   Qualified institutions and advisor selection
   
70.011   Investments with local and disadvantaged business enterprises
   
70.012   Safekeeping and collateralization
   
70.013   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
70.014   Reporting requirements and performance measures
   
70.015   Internal control and periodic review
   
70.016   Responsibility for interpretation
   
70.017   Public Funds Investment Act
§ 70.001 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   Investment or public funds by a public agency shall be governed
by a written investment policy adopted by the public agency. The level of
detail and complexity or the investment policy shall be appropriate to the
nature of the funds, the purpose of the funds and the amount of the public
funds within the investment portfolio. The policy shall address safety of
principal, liquidity of funds and return on investment and shall require that
the investment portfolio be structured in such manner as to provide sufficient
liquidity to pay obligations as they come due.
      (2)   In addition, the investment policy shall include or address the
following:
         (a)   A listing of authorized investments;
         (b)   A rule, such as the “prudent person rule”, establishing the
standard of care that must be maintained by the persons investing the public
funds;
         (c)   Investment guidelines that are appropriate to the nature of the
funds, the purpose for the funds and the amount of the public funds within the
investment portfolio;
         (d)   A policy regarding diversification of the investment portfolio
that is appropriate to the nature of the funds, the purpose for the funds and
the amount of the public funds within the investment portfolio;
         (e)   Guidelines regarding collateral requirements, if any, for the
deposit of public funds in a financial institution made pursuant to this Act,
and, if applicable, guidelines for contractual arrangements for the custody and
safekeeping of that collateral;
         (f)   A policy regarding the establishment of a system of internal
controls and written operational procedures designed to prevent losses of funds
that might arise from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third parties
or imprudent actions by employees of the entity;
         (g)   Identification of the Chief Investment Officer who is
responsible for establishing the internal controls and written procedures for
the operation of the investment program;
         (h)   Performance measures that are appropriate to the nature of the
funds, the purpose for the funds and the amount of the public funds within the
investment portfolio;
         (i)   A policy regarding appropriate periodic review of the investment
portfolio; its effectiveness in meeting the public agency’s needs for safety,
liquidity, rate of return and diversification; and its general performance;
         (j)   A policy establishing at least quarterly written reports of
investment activities by the public agency’s Chief Financial Officer for
submission to the governing body and Chief Executive Officer of the public
agency. The reports shall include information regarding securities in the
portfolio by class or type, book value, income earned and market value as of
the report date;
         (k)   A policy regarding the selection of investment advisors, money
managers and financial institutions; and
         (l)   A policy regarding ethics and conflicts of interest.
   (B)   For purposes of the state or a county, the investment policy shall be
adopted by the elected Treasurer and presented to the Chief Executive Officer
and the governing body. For purposes of any other public agency, the investment
policy shall be adopted by the governing body of the public agency.
   (C)   The investment policy shall be made available to the public at the
main administrative office of the public agency.
   (D)   The written investment policy required under this section shall be
developed and implemented by January 1, 2000.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Public Act 90-688, effective 7-31-98
   Related provisions, see 30 ILCS 235/2.5
§ 70.002 SCOPE.
   (A)   This Policy applies to depositing and investing available cash assets
of the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority and the
Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation, both d/b/a Metra.
Excluded from this Policy are investment activities pertaining to pension or
deferred compensation funds.
   (B)   Investments authorized under this Policy will be referred to as
“permitted investments”. Financial institutions and brokerages that have been
approved for investment transactions will be referred to as “qualified
institutions”.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.003 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Funds will be invested in accordance with 30 ILCS 235/1-7 et al.; the
Public Funds Investment Act (30 ILCS 235/0.01 et seq.), as supplemented by this
Policy; and written administrative procedures.
   (B)   If any part of this Policy is inconsistent with or violates the Act,
this Policy shall:
      (1)   Be deemed amended in order to comply with the Act; or
      (2)   The inconsistent or violating part will be deemed eliminated with
the rest of the Policy remaining in full force and effect, at the Board of
Directors’ and Executive Director’s choice.
   (C)   Metra staff will manage the investment portfolio to attain a market
rate of return while preserving and protecting capital.
   (D)   Metra’s investment objectives include the following.
      (1)   Safety of principal. The security of monies and the investment of
funds will be made with safety as a primary and overriding concern. Each
investment transaction shall ensure that loss of capital, whether from credit
or market risk, is minimized.
      (2)   Liquidity. Maturity and marketability aspects of investments should
be coordinated with the anticipated cash flow needs of Metra. The investment
portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to meet all operating requirements
which might be reasonably anticipated.
      (3)   Rate of return. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO), or his or her
designate, the Director, Treasury shall seek to attain a market average or
better rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles, taking into
account risk, constraints, cash flow and legal restriction on investment.
      (4)   Public trust. Metra and its officers should avoid any investment
transaction or practice which in appearance or fact might impair public
confidence in its stewardship of public funds.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.004 RESPONSIBILITY AND DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Directors is responsible for approving the Metra
investment policies.
   (B)   The Executive Director is responsible for reviewing and approving the
investment practices and strategies of Metra.
   (C)   The Assistant Treasurer of Metra, who is appointed by the Board of
Directors, shall report to the Executive Director. The Assistant Treasurer, who
is the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), is responsible for developing
investment procedures, complying with investment policies and reporting
investment activities to the Executive Director.
      (1)   The CFO may designate the Director, Treasury, who will be
responsible for investment decisions and activities under the direction of the
CFO.
      (2)   The CFO shall be responsible for all transactions and shall
establish a system of controls for all authorized subordinates who are directly
involved in the assistance of such investment activities.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.005 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   The standard of care to be applied by the CFO and theDirector,
Treasury, shall be the “prudent person” rule. “Investments shall be made with
judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of
prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own
affairs, not for speculation, but for investment, considering the probable
safety of the capital as well as the probable income to be derived”. The
prudent person rule shall be applied in the context of managing the overall
portfolio.
   (B)   The officers of Metra are authorized and encouraged by the Board of
Directors to maximize the rate of return on cash to be invested to the extent
allowed by “the Act”. Specifically, this means that qualified investments need
not be collateralized except when required by “the Act”. The CFO, his or her
designee or the Executive Director may, at their discretion, require collateral
based upon their assessment of market conditions.
   (C)   The Executive Director, the CFO and the Director, Treasury, shall not
be held personally responsible for a specific security’s credit risk or market
price changes, provided that all such investments were made in accordance with
the Act, this Policy and applicable Metra procedures.
   (D)   The CFO or Director, Treasury, under the direction of the CFO, shall
routinely monitor the contents of the portfolio, the available markets and the
relative value of competing instruments, to assess the effectiveness of the
portfolio in meeting the safety, liquidity, rate of return, diversification and
general performances objectives, and shall adjust the portfolio accordingly.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.006 PERMITTED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment and reinvestment of cash assets, except those specifically
excluded from this Policy, are authorized for public agencies under the
provisions of the Public Funds Investment Act, as amended, (30 ILCS 235/0.01 et
seq.) and subject to the terms and conditions provided (see Exhibit A).
   (B)   (1)   Contained in the Act are specific requirements pertaining to
investment instruments, maturities, quality, collateral and safekeeping to
which Metra must adhere.
      (2)   In addition, the following restrictions apply to Metra investments.
         (a)   Investment in savings and loan associations shall only be to the
maximum amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
         (b)   No investments shall be made in any credit union.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.007 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   In addition to the limitations imposed by law and this Policy, Metra will
diversify its investments permitted by “the Act” to avoid incurring
unreasonable risks associated with over-investing in specific instruments,
individual qualified institutions or certain maturities in accordance with the
following guidelines.
   (A)   Diversification of permitted investments. See the following table.
Diversification of Permitted Investments Maximum Percent of Portfolio
                                                                                   Maximum
Diversification of Permitted Investments                                           Percent
                                                                                   of
                                                                                   Portfolio
Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, treasury bills or other securities     100%
which are guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Bonds, notes, debentures and similar obligations of United States Government
Agencies. Includes Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Bank, Banks for  25%
Cooperatives, Federal Farm Credit Bank, Federal Home Loan Bank, Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation and any other agency created by an Act of Congress
Interest-bearing accounts, certificates of deposit, interest bearing time deposits
or other direct obligations of any FDIC insured bank, as defined in the Illinois   100%
Banking Act, or savings and loan associations permitted by this Policy
Commercial paper, as limited by paragraph 2 (a)(4) of the Act (short term
obligations of corporations organized in the United States with assets exceeding
$500 million with obligations rated at time of purchase by 1 of the 3 highest
classifications established by at least 2 standard rating services, do not mature  33-1/3%
more than 180 days from date of purchase, do not exceed 10% of the corporation’s
outstanding obligations and no more than 1/3 of the agency’s funds may be invested
in short term obligations of corporations)
Money Market Mutual Funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as  20%
limited by paragraph 2 (a)(5) of the Act
Short term obligations of the Federal National Mortgage Association                25%
The Illinois Fund                                                                  25%
Repurchase Agreements (Repos), as limited by paragraph 2 of the Act                50%
 
   (B)   Diversification by qualified institution.
      (1)   Certificates of deposit (CDs) - commercial banks. No more than 20%
of the total portfolio with any one institution; and, the amount of the CDs
over FDIC insurance coverage shall not exceed 15% of the combined capital stock
and surplus of the institution.
      (2)   Commercial paper. No more than 10% of the total portfolio invested
in any one issuer.
      (3)   Repurchase agreements. No more than 25% of the total portfolio at
any one institution.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.008 CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENT MATURITIES.
   The CFO or Director, Treasury, will arrange investment maturities to
coincide with projected cash flow needs, taking into account expenditures as
well as considering anticipated revenues. The CFO and the Director, Treasury,
shall prepare and review a projected cash flow schedule quarterly and submit a
report to the Executive Director.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.009 SELECTION OF PERMITTED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Before liquid cash assets of Metra are invested or reinvested, or
portfolio investments sold, quotes or proposals from qualified institutions
will be solicited orally or in writing, as appropriate.
   (B)   Metra will seek to attain the quotes or proposals which provide a
market average or better rate of return for the maturity required taking into
account risk, constraints and cash flow, within the parameters of “the Act”,
this Policy and Metra procedures.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.010 QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS AND ADVISOR SELECTION.
   (A)   The CFO will maintain a listing of financial institutions which are
used for investment purposes (“qualified institutions”). This list will be
updated as necessary by the CFO.
      (1)   The CFO shall require the financial institutions and securities
dealers to provide copies of the most recent annual certified financial reports
as well as any other reports deemed necessary by the CFO.
      (2)   Additional information that can be requested include consolidated
reports of condition (“call” reports), copies of sworn statements of resources
and liabilities and any other statements which financial institutions or
securities dealers may be required to furnish to the Commissioner of Banks and
Trust Companies, to the Comptroller of the currency or other applicable
regulatory agencies.
      (3)   The CFO or Director, Treasury, shall review each financial
institution’s and security dealer’s performance and compliance to determine
whether it should be a qualified institution.
      (4)   Investments in certificates of deposit, time deposits, et. al. in
excess of FDIC insurance shall be made only in banks which have capital stock
and surplus over $10,000,000 as of the date of their most recent audited
financial statements.
   (B)   Selection of investment advisors and other professional services
relating to investment activity shall comply with the requirements of the Act
and all Metra policies regarding selection of professional services.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.011 INVESTMENTS WITH LOCAL AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES.
   Metra has established and will maintain a practice of investing a portion of
its cash assets in qualified institutions within its six county service area
and will seek to ensure maximum participation by qualified disadvantaged
business enterprises to the extent available. Investments in qualified
institutions with their principal office located within the central business
district of the City of Chicago will not be considered as serving local areas.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.012 SAFEKEEPING AND COLLATERALIZATION.
   (A)   All investment securities and any underlying collateral purchased by
Metra shall be held in third party safekeeping accounts in accordance with “the
Act” by institutions designated as “custodians”. The custodians shall issue
safekeeping receipts to Metra listing the specific instruments, rates,
maturities and other pertinent information for each investment. Safekeeping and
collateralization shall be in compliance with requirements of “the Act”.
   (B)   Collateral for investments shall only be securities or financial
instruments permitted by “the Act” with maturities not exceeding five years.
   (C)   Any investments constituting direct obligations of any bank, when
deemed by Metra’s officers or this Policy to require collateralization, shall
be fully collateralized in an amount equal to at least 100% of the market value
of the collateral securities. If, in the opinion of the Executive Director or
the CFO, market conditions warrant a more conservative policy, then a higher
level of collateralization can be required by Metra.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.013 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   In the execution of investment activities, all Metra employees shall comply
with the requirements of the Act and all Metra policies regarding ethics and
conflicts of interest.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.014 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES.
   (A)   The CFO will prepare cash flow reports quarterly. In addition, the CFO
shall provide the Executive Director a monthly report on overall portfolio
performance and any compliance problems with this Policy. The monthly reports
will categorize investments by type, issuer, interest rate, maturity, book
value, income earned and market value as of the report date.
   (B)   Portfolio performance will be measured using market benchmarks similar
to the type of investments held in the portfolio and their maturity. The
Executive Director shall provide investments reports to the Metra Board on a
monthly basis.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.015 INTERNAL CONTROL AND PERIODIC REVIEW.
   (A)   The CFO is responsible for developing and complying with a system of
written internal controls. The investment procedures should ensure that the
objectives of Metra’s investment policy are maintained.
   (B)   The Metra investment procedures so developed are subject to the
approval of the Executive Director. The Metra investment procedures are subject
to review by the Metra’s audit staff and by Metra’s external auditor.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.016 RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The CFO is responsible for the interpretation of this Policy. Matters
regarding legal interpretation will be referred to the General Counsel by the
CFO.
   (B)   Any matters which cannot be resolved at this level will be brought to
the Executive Director for disposition.
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
§ 70.017 PUBLIC FUNDS INVESTMENT ACT.
   Attachment: Exhibit A - Public Funds Investment Act (30 ILCS 235/0.01 et
seq.):
 
IL ST CH 30 § 235/0.01
 
Formerly cited as IL ST CH 85 § 900                                    EXHIBIT A
 
WEST SMITH-HURD ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES ANNOTATED
CHAPTER 30. FINANCE
RECEIPT, INVESTMENT, AND DISBURSEMENT
ACT 235. PUBLIC FUNDS INVESTMENT ACT
 
Current through P.A. 90-573, apv. 2/6/98
 
235/0.01. Short title
 
§ 0.01. Short title. This Act may be cited as the Public Funds Investment Act.
 
235/1. “Public funds” and “public agency” defined
 
§ 1. The words “public funds”, as used in this Act, mean current operating funds, special funds, interest and
sinking funds and funds of any kind or character belonging to or in the custody of any public agency.
 
The words “public agency”, as used in this Act, mean the State of Illinois, the
various counties, townships, cities, towns, villages, school districts, educational
service regions, special road districts, public water supply districts, fire
protection district, drainage districts, levee districts, sewer districts, housing
authorities, the Illinois Bank Examiners’ Education Foundation, the Chicago Park
District, and all other political corporations or subdivisions of the State of
Illinois, now or hereafter created, whether herein specifically mentioned or not. This
Act does not apply to pension funds or retirement systems established under the
Illinois Pension Code, [FN1] except as otherwise provided in that Code.
 
§ 2. Authorized investments.
 
(a)   Any public agency may invest any public funds as follows:
 
(1)   in bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, treasury bills or other
securities now or hereafter issued, which are guaranteed by the full faith and credit
of the United States of America as to principal and interest;
(2)   in bonds, notes, debentures, or other similar obligations of the United States
of America or its agencies;
(3)   in interest-bearing savings accounts, interest-bearing certificates of deposit
or interest-bearing time deposits or other investments constituting direct obligations
of any bank as defined by the Illinois Banking Act; [FN1]
(4)   in short term obligations of corporations organized in the United States with
assets exceeding $500,000,000 if (i) such obligations are rated at the time of
purchase at one of the 3 highest classifications established by at least 2 standard
rating services and which mature not later than 180 days from the date of purchase,
(ii) such purchases do not exceed 10% of the corporation’s outstanding obligations and
(iii) no more than one-third of the public agency’s funds may be invested in short
term obligations of corporations; or
(5)   in money market mutual funds registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940, [FN2] provided that the portfolio of any such money market mutual fund is
limited to obligations described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection and to
agreements to repurchase such obligations.
 
   (a-1)   In addition to any other investments authorized under this Act, a
municipality may invest its public funds in interest bearing bonds of any county,
township, city, village, incorporated town, municipal corporation, or school district.
The bonds shall be registered in the name of the municipality or held under a
custodial agreement at a bank. The bonds shall be rated at time of purchase within the
4 highest general classifications established by a rating service of nationally
recognized expertise rating bonds of state and political subdivisions.
 
   (b)   Investments may be made only in banks which are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation. Any public agency may invest any public funds in short
term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage Association or in shares or
other forms of securities legally issuable by savings banks or savings and loan
associations incorporate under the laws...missing text...’s State or any other state
or under the laws of the United States. Investments may be made only in those savings
banks or savings and loan associations the shares, or investment certificates of which
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Any such securities may be
purchased at the offering or market price thereof at the time of such purchase. All
such securities so purchase shall mature or be redeemable on a date or dates prior to
the time when, in the judgment of such governing authority, the public funds so
invested will be required for expenditure by such public agency or its governing
authority. The expressed judgment of any such governing authority as to the time when
any public funds will be required for expenditure or be redeemable is final and
conclusive. Any public agency may invest any public funds in dividend-bearing share
accounts, share certificate accounts or class of share accounts of a credit union
charter under the laws of this State or the laws of the United States; provided,
however, the principal office of any such credit union must be located within the
State of Illinois. Investments may be made only in those credit unions the accounts of
which are insure by applicable law.
 
   (c)   For purposes of this Section, the term “agencies of the United States of
America” includes: (i) the federal land banks, federal intermediate credit banks,
banks for cooperative, federal farm credit banks, or any other entity authorized to
issue debt obligations under the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) and
Acts amendatory thereto; (ii) the federal home loan banks and the federal home loan
mortgage corporation; and (iii) any other agency created by Act of Congress.
   (d)   Except for pecuniary interests permitted under subsection (f) of Section 3-
14-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code (FN3) or under Section 3.2 of the Public Officer
Prohibited Practices Act, [FN4] no person acting as treasurer or financial officer or
who is employed in any similar capacity by or for a public agency may do any of the
following:
 
      (1)   have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any investments in which the
agency is authorized to invest.
      (2)   have any interest, directly or indirectly, in the sellers, sponsors, or
managers of those investments.
      (3)   receive, in any manner, compensation of any kind from any investments in
which the agency is authorized to invest.
 
   (e)   Any public agency may also invest any public funds in a Public Treasurer’s
Investment Pool created under Section 17 of the State Treasurer Act. [FN5] Any public
agency may also invest any public funds in a fund managed, operated, and administered
by a bank, subsidiary of a bank, or subsidiary of a bank holding company or use the
services of such an entity to hold and invest or advise regarding the investment of
any public funds.
 
   (f)   To the extent a public agency has custody of funds not owned by it or another
public agency and does not otherwise have authority to invest such funds, the public
agency may invest such funds as if they were its own. Such funds must be released to
the appropriate person at the earliest reasonable time, but in no case exceeding 31
days, after the private person becomes entitled to the receipt of them. All earnings
accruing on any investments or deposits made pursuant to the provisions of this Act
shall be credited to the public agency by or for which such investments or deposits
were made, except as provided otherwise in Section 4.1 of the State Finance Act [FN6]
or the Local Governmental Tax Collection Act, [FN7] and except where by specific
statutory provisions such earnings are directed to be credited to and paid to a
particular fund.
 
   (g)   A public agency may purchase or invest in repurchase agreements of government
securities having the meaning set out in the Government Securities Act of 1986 [FN8]
subject to the provisions of said Act and the regulations issued thereunder. The
government securities, unless registered or inscribed in the name of the public
agency, shall be purchased through banks or trust companies authorized to do business
in the State of Illinois.
 
   (h)   Except for repurchase agreements of government securities which are subject
to the Government Securities Act of 1986 no public agency may purchase or invest in
instruments which constitute repurchase agreements, and no financial institution may
enter into such an agreement with or on behalf of any public agency unless the
instrument and the transaction meeting the following requirements:
 
      (1)   The securities, unless registered or inscribed in the name of the public
agency, are purchased though banks or trust companies authorized to do business in the
State of Illinois.
 
      (2)   An authorized public officer after ascertaining which firm will give the
most favorable rate of interest, directs the custodial bank to “purchase” specified
securities from a designated institution. The “custodial bank” is the bank or trust
company, or agency of government, which acts for the public agency in connection with
repurchase agreements involving the investment of funds by the public agency. The
State Treasurer may act as custodial bank for public agencies executing repurchase
agreements. To the extent the Treasurer acts in this capacity, he is hereby authorized
to pass through to such public agencies any charges assessed by the Federal Reserve
Bank.
 
      (3)   A custodial bank must be a member bank of the Federal Reserve System or
maintain accounts with member bank. All transfers of book-entry securities must be
accomplished on a Reserve Bank’s computer records through a member bank or the Federal
Reserve System. These securities must be credited to the public agency on the records
of the custodial bank and the transaction must be confirmed in writing to the public
agency by the custodial bank.
 
      (4)   Trading partners shall be limited to banks or trust companies authorized
to do business in the State of Illinois or the registered primary reporting dealers.
 
      (5)   The security interest must be preferred.
 
      (6)   The public agency enters into a written master repurchase agreement which
outlines the basic responsibilities and liabilities of both buyer and seller.
 
      (7)   Agreements shall be for periods of 330 days or less.
 
      (8)   The authorized public officer of the public agency informs the custodial
bank in writing of the maturity details of the repurchase agreement.
 
      (9)   The custodial bank must take delivery of and maintain the securities in its
custody for the account of the public agency and confirm the transaction in writing to
the public agency. The Custodial Undertaking shall provide that the custodian takes
possession of the securities exclusively for the public agency; that the securities are
free of any claims against the trading partner; and any claims by the custodian are
subordinate to the public agency’s claims to the rights to those securities.
 
      (10)   The obligations purchased by a public agency may only be sold or presented
for redemption or payment by the fiscal agent bank or trust company holding the
obligations upon the written instruction of the public agency or officer authorized to
make such investments.
 
      (11)   The custodial bank shall be liable to the public agency for any monetary
loss suffered by the public agency due the failure of the custodial bank to take and
maintain possession of such securities.
 
   (i)   Notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions on investment in instruments
constituting repurchase agreements the Illinois Housing Development Authority may invest
in, and any financial institution with capital of at least $250,000,000 may act as
custodian for, instruments that constitute-repurchase agreements, provided that the
Illinois Housing Development Authority, in making each such investment, complies with
the safety and soundness guidelines for engaging in repurchase transactions applicable
to federally insured banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations or other
depository institutions as set forth in the Federal Financial Institutions Examination
Council Policy Statement Regarding Repurchase Agreements and any regulation issued, or
which may be issued by the supervisory federal authority pertaining thereto and any
amendments thereto; provided further that the securities shall be either (i) direct
general obligations of, or obligations the payment of the principal of and/or interest
on which are unconditional1y guaranteed by, the United States of America or (ii) any
obligations of any agency, corporation or subsidiary thereof controlled or supervised by
and acting as an instrumentality of the United States Government pursuant to authority
granted by the Congress of the United States and provided further that the security
interest must be perfected by either the Illinois Housing Development Authority, its
custodian or its agent receiving possession of the securities either physically or
transferred through a nationally recognized book entry system.
 
   (j)   In addition to all other investments authorized under this Section, a community
college district may invest public funds in any mutual funds that invest primarily in
corporate investment grade or global government short term bonds. Purchases of mutual
funds that invest primarily in global government short term bonds shall be limited to
funds with assets of at least $100 million and that are rated at the time of purchase as
one of the 10 highest classifications established by a recognized rating service. The
investments shall be subject to approval by the local community college board of
trustees. Each community college board of trustees shall develop a policy regarding the
percentage of the college’s investment portfolio that can be invested in such funds.
 
   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to authorize an intergovernmental risk
management entity to accept the deposit of public funds except for risk management
purposes.
 
[S.H.A. 30 ILCS 235/2.5] (30 ILCS 235/2.5 new).
 
§ 2.5
 
   (a)   Investment of public funds by a public agency shall be governed by a written
investment policy adopted by the public agency. The level of detail and complexity of
the investment policy shall be appropriate to the nature of the funds, the purpose for
the funds, and the amount of the public funds within the investment portfolio. The
policy shall address safety of principal, liquidity of funds, and return on investment
and shall require that the investment portfolio be structured in such manner as to
provide sufficient liquidity to pay obligations as they come due. In addition, the
investment policy shall include or address the following:
 
      (1)   a listing of authorized investments;
 
      (2)   a rule, such as the “prudent person rule”, establishing the standard of care
that must be maintained by the persons investing the public funds;
 
      (3)   investment guidelines that are appropriate to the nature of the funds, the
purpose for the funds, and the amount of the public funds within the investment
portfolio;
 
      (4)   a policy regarding diversification of the investment portfolio that is
appropriate to the nature of the funds, the purpose for the funds, and the amount of the
public funds within the investment portfolio;
 
      (5)   guidelines regarding collateral requirements, if any, for the deposit of
public funds in a financial institution made pursuant to this Act, and, if applicable,
guidelines for contractual arrangements for the custody and safekeeping of that
collateral;
 
      (6)   a policy regarding the establishment of a system of internal controls and
written operational procedures designed to prevent losses of funds that might arise from
fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, or imprudent actions by
employees of the entity;
 
      (7)   identification of the chief investment officer who is responsible for
establishing the internal controls and written procedures for the operation of the
investment program;
 
      (8)   performance measures that are appropriate to the nature of the funds, the
purpose for the funds, and the amount of the public funds within the investment
portfolio;
 
      (9)   a policy regarding appropriate periodic review of the investment portfolio,
its effectiveness in meeting the public agency’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of
return, and diversification, and its general performance;
 
      (10)   a policy establishing at least quarterly written reports of investment
activities by the public agency’s chief financial officer for submission to the
governing body and chief executive officer of the public agency. The reports shall
include information regarding securities in the portfolio by class or type, book value,
income earned, and market value as of the report date;
 
      (11)   a policy regarding the selection of investment advisors, money managers,
and financial institutions; and
 
      (12)   a policy regarding ethics and conflicts of interest.
 
   (b)   For purposes of the State or a county, the investment policy shall be adopted
by the elected treasurer and presented to the chief executive officer and the governing
body. For purposes of any other public agency, the investment policy shall be adopted by
the governing body of the public agency.
   (c)   The investment policy shall be made available to the public at the main
administrative office of the public agency.
 
   (d)   The written investment policy required under this Section shall be developed
and implemented by January 1, 2000.
 
   § 3. If any securities, purchased under authority of Section 2 hereof, are
issuable to a designated payee or to the order of a designated payee, then the public
agency shall be so designated, and further, if such securities are purchased with
money taken from a particular fund of a public agency, the name of such fund shall be
added to that of such public agency. If any such securities are registerable, either
as to principal or interest, or both, then such securities shall be so registered in
the name of the public agency, and in the name of the fund to which they are to be
credited.
 
   § 4. All securities purchased under the authority of this Act shall be held for
the benefit of the public agency which purchases them, and if purchased with money
taken from a particular fund, such securities shall be credited to and deemed to be a
part of such fund, and shall be held for the benefit thereof. All securities so
purchased shall be deposited and held in a safe place by the person or persons having
custody of the fund to which they are credited, and such person or persons are
responsible upon his or their official bond or bonds for the safekeeping of all such
securities. Any securities purchased by any such public agency under authority of
this Act, may be sold at any time, at the then current market price thereof, by the
governing authority of such public agency. Except as provided in Section 4.1 of “An
Act in relation to State finance”, [FN1] all payments received as principal on
interest, or otherwise, derived from any such securities shall be credited to the
public agency and to the fund by or for which such securities were purchased.
 
   § 5. This Act, without reference to any other statute, shall be deemed full and
complete authority for the investment of public funds, as hereinabove provided, and
shall be construed as an additional and alternative method therefor.
 
   § 6. Report of financial institutions.
 
   (a)   No bank shall receive any public funds unless it has furnished the corporate
authorities of a public agency submitting a deposit with copies of the last two sworn
statements of resources and liabilities which the bank is required to furnish to the
Commissioner of Banks and Real Estate or to the Comptroller of the Currency. Each
bank designated as a depository for public funds shall, while acting as such
depository, furnish the corporate authorities of a public agency with a copy of all
statements on resources and liabilities which it is required to furnish to the
Commissioner of Banks and Real Estate or to the Comptroller of the Currency;
provided, that if such funds or moneys are deposited in a bank, the amount of all
such deposits not collateralized or insured by an agency of the federal government
shall not exceed 75% of the capital stock and surplus of such bank, and the corporate
authorities of a public agency submitting a deposit shall not be discharged from
responsibility for any funds or money deposited in any bank in excess of such
limitation.
 
   (b)   No savings bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds
unless it has furnished the corporate authorities of a public agency submitting a
deposit with copies of the last 2 sworn statements of resources and liabilities which
the savings bank or savings and loan association is required to furnish to the
Commissioner of Banks and Real Estate or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Each savings bank or savings and loan association designated as a depository for
public funds shall, while acting as such depository, furnish the corporate
authorities of a public agency with a copy of all statements of resources and
liabilities which it is required to furnish to the Commissioner of Banks and Real
Estate or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; provided, that if such funds or
moneys are deposited in a savings bank or savings and loan association, the amount of
all such deposits not collateralized or insured by an agency of the federal
government shall not exceed 75% of the net worth of such savings bank or savings and
loan association as defined by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the
corporate authorities of a public agency submitting a deposit shall not be discharged
from responsibility for any funds or money deposited in any savings bank or savings
and loan association in excess of such limitation.
   (c)   No credit union shall receive public funds unless it has furnished the
corporate authorities of a public agency submitting a share deposit with copies of
the last two reports of examination prepared by or submitted to the Illinois
Department of Financial Institutions or the National Credit Union Administration.
Each credit union designated as a depository for public funds shall, while acting as
such depository, furnish the corporate authorities of a public agency with a copy of
all reports of examination prepared by or furnished to the Illinois Department of
Financial Institutions or the National Credit Union Administration; provided that if
such funds or moneys are invested in a credit union account, the amount of all such
investment not collateralized or insured by an agency of the federal government or
other approved share insurer shall not exceed 50% of the unimpaired capital and
surplus of such credit union, which shall include shares, reserves and undivided
earnings and the corporate authorities of a public agency making an investment shall
not be discharged from responsibility for any funds or moneys invested in a credit
union in excess of such limitation.
 
   (d)   Whenever a public agency deposits any public funds in a financial
institution, the public agency may enter into an agreement with the financial
institution requiring any funds not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or the National Credit Union Administration or other approved share
insurer to be collateralized by securities or mortgages in an amount equal to at
least market value of that amount of funds deposited exceeding the insurance
limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National
Credit Union Administration or other approved share insurer.
 
   (e)   Paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Section do not apply to the
University of Illinois, Southern Illinois University, Chicago State University,
Eastern Illinois University, Governors State University, Illinois State University,
Northeastern Illinois University, Northern Illinois University, Western Illinois
University, the Cooperative Computer Center and public community colleges.
 
   § 7. When investing or depositing public funds, each custodian shall, to the
extent permitted by this Act and by the lawful reasonable performance of his
custodial duties, invest or deposit such funds with or in minority-owned financial
institutions within this State.
 
(Ord. NIRC 99-2, passed 12-17-1999)
TITLE IX: PROCUREMENT
   Chapter
      
90.   DELEGATING AUTHORITY
      
91.   PUBLIC BIDDING
CHAPTER 90: DELEGATING AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Purpose
   
90.002   Authorization to take action
   
90.003   Title usage
   
90.004   Authorization to sign documents
   
90.005   Board approval required to sign
   
90.006   Logging documents signed without approval
   
90.007   Secretary authorized to attest
   
90.008   Delegations
   
90.009   More strict authorizations required
   
90.010   Repeal
Procurement Authority
   
90.025   Procurement authority
   
90.026   General authority
Budget Authority
   
90.040   Legal services
   
90.041   Insurance services
   
90.042   Employee benefits
   
90.043   Grant authority
Amendment Authority
   
90.055   Contracts executed under threshold
   
90.056   Contracts executed over threshold
   
90.057   Amendments maintaining or reducing obligations
   
90.058   Contract extensions pending negotiation
Litigation Settlement Authority
   
90.070   Executive Director
   
90.071   General Counsel
   
90.072   General Counsel’s delegation
   
90.073   Non-remunerative settlements
   
90.074   Settlements reducing obligations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 PURPOSE.
   The Board of Directors of the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
Corporation (“Board”) grants authority to the CEO/Executive Director
(“Executive Director”) and members of the Executive Director’s staff in
accordance with the following regulations. For administrative efficiency, much
of the authorities granted or limited through these regulations are benchmarked
to the Federal Transit Administration’s simplified acquisition threshold
(“Simple Threshold”), or current equivalent, as determined by federal law (2
C.F.R. § 200.88). As used in these regulations, the SIMPLE THRESHOLD means the
dollar amount below which a non-federal entity may purchase property or
services using small purchase methods. This represents an independently derived
amount, periodically adjusted in accordance with federal procurement standards.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.002 AUTHORIZATION TO TAKE ACTION.
   The Executive Director is authorized to take such action as the Executive
Director deems necessary or appropriate to implement, administer and enforce
the terms of all documents, whether signed under the authority of this title or
under authority of the Board.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.003 TITLE USAGE.
   The use of titles such as “Executive Director”, “CEO/Executive Director”,
“Chief Executive Officer/Executive Director” or any combination thereof on any
document in the name of the NIRC executed and delivered by the Executive
Director shall be deemed to have been executed and delivered in that officer’s
capacity as Executive Director of the NIRC.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.004 AUTHORIZATION TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.
   The Executive Director is authorized to sign all documents necessary to
effectuate this authority.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.005 BOARD APPROVAL REQUIRED TO SIGN.
   The Executive Director must obtain Board approval to sign and execute any
contract, purchase order or amendment for which execution authority has not
been granted by these regulations or an existing or subsequent ordinance.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.006 LOGGING DOCUMENTS SIGNED WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   All contracts, purchase orders and amendments that the Executive Director
has signed and delivered without Board approval are to be logged or reported in
a manner acceptable to the Board.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.007 SECRETARY AUTHORIZED TO ATTEST.
   The Secretary and any Assistant Secretary to the Board is authorized to
attest to any documents executed on behalf of the NIRC.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.008 DELEGATIONS.
   The Executive Director may delegate his or her authority enumerated herein
to sign any document to an appropriate officer of the NIRC. All delegations
shall be in writing. The original shall be forwarded to the Assistant Secretary
to the Board, with copies to the General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer and
the Chief Audit Officer. At the Executive Director’s discretion, delegations
may be limited to the period that the original delegate is unable to perform,
such as during vacancies, vacations and illnesses. Unless limited by the
Executive Director, a person assuming an “acting” position shall also assume
that position’s delegated authority.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.009 MORE STRICT AUTHORIZATIONS REQUIRED.
   If any federal, state law or agreements under which grant funds are made
available to NIRC require more strict authorizations than those enumerated
herein, NIRC shall follow the more strict authorizations.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.010 REPEAL.
   (A)   The following ordinances or resolutions are repealed:
      (1)   MET 88-24 RTA 401k;
      (2)   MET 89-2 Deferred Compensation Plan;
      (3)   MET 10-15 Amendment to 89-2;
      (4)   MET 11-05 Insurance Authority; and
      (5)   MET 11-06 Settlement Authority.
   (B)   These regulations shall supersede any prior ordinance and take
precedence and control over any previously enacted conflicting ordinances,
regulations, rules or policies.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY
§ 90.025 PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Executive Director is authorized to enter into and sign the following
procurement contracts and purchase orders:
   (A)   Awards made through an invitation for bid, not to exceed three times
the Simple Threshold;
   (B)   Awards made in accordance with competitive procurement methods, such
as requests for proposals, letters of interest and qualifications or other
adopted methods, not to exceed two times the Simple Threshold;
   (C)   Awards made, which are exempt from public bidding under the RTA Act,
not to exceed the Simple Threshold;
   (D)   Contracts for diesel fuel, gasoline, bulk lubricants, electricity or
natural gas on behalf of Metra operations, including the operations of Metra’s
purchase of service carriers, provided that any contract, as amended, will not
exceed a term of 60 months;
   (E)   Contracts in the event of an emergency. The Executive Director may,
after notice to the Board, enter into contracts for immediate delivery of
supplies, material, equipment or immediate performance of services, provided
that there is a concurrence of two-thirds of the then Directors, which
concurrence is sought as soon as practicable after the contract is executed;
and
   (F)   Emergency Metra force account work to repair municipal utilities or
commuter facilities for any amount.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.026 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The Executive Director is authorized to sign the following:
   (A)   Applications or filings arising in the ordinary course of business,
contracts, easements, licenses, leases or concessions, if the total cost or
consideration to NIRC does not exceed the Simple Threshold, over the term, if
any, of the document, including all extensions;
   (B)   Contracts, easements, licenses, leases and concessions with government
agencies or public utilities if the total cost or consideration to NIRC does
not exceed two times the Simple Threshold over the term of the document,
including all extensions. Utility contracts incident to a capital project have
no limitation, provided the Board has approved the expenditure of the relevant
funds through the annual operating or capital budgets;
   (C)   Rights-of-entry and filming agreements, permitting the temporary use
of NIRC’s property by third parties where such term, including all extensions,
is less than two years. Such two-year limitation shall not apply to rights-of-
entry agreements issued to or on behalf of government agencies or units of
local government;
   (D)   Documents arising in the ordinary course of business pertaining to the
real estate assets of NIRC, including, but not limited to, written consents,
assignments, subletting, tenant mortgages, estoppel certificates and lease or
license terminations or releases;
   (E)   Confidentiality agreements or their release;
   (F)   The Executive Director may sign agreements with railroads or
government agencies for crossings, joint facilities, fixed facilities, trackage
rights and purchases of service that are necessary to accommodate the
operation, repair, renovation or construction of commuter facilities or related
improvements in an amount exceeding the Simple Threshold, provided that the
Board has approved expenditure of the relevant funds through the annual
operating or capital budget. This subsection (F) does not authorize the signing
of purchase of service agreements with the Union Pacific Railroad Company, the
BNSF Railway Company, NICTD or its successors, but does authorize the extension
of such agreements on substantially the same terms;
   (G)   Documents effecting or implementing the terms of trackage agreements,
purchase of service agreements, excursion agreements or pilot agreements,
including temporary service changes or fare changes for recurring seasonal or
one-time civic events, and contracts for one-time, periodic, intermittent or
annual trackage use agreements or special trains for charitable or not-for-
profit organizations, seasonal or themed events or other special trains with a
primary focus on goodwill or community relations; and
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, the Executive Director may
only sign contracts and amendments for professional legislative consulting
services, and any other services necessary to represent and promote the
interests of NIRC to federal, state and local elected officials and their
staffs, on approval of the Board.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
BUDGET AUTHORITY
§ 90.040 LEGAL SERVICES.
   The Executive Director may sign contracts and amendments, upon the
recommendation of the General Counsel, for legal services, including, but not
limited to, the services of experts, law firms and attorneys and any other
services necessary to conduct legal matters, including, but not limited to,
litigation and contract negotiations, provided that the Board has approved
expenditure of the relevant funds through the annual operating or capital
budget.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.041 INSURANCE SERVICES.
   The Executive Director may sign contracts and amendments, upon the
recommendation of a senior supervisor, for insurance brokerage services and for
insurance policies necessary to protect the NIRC, and to sign all ancillary
documents necessary to secure such brokerage services and insurance policies,
provided the Board has approved expenditure of the relevant funds through the
annual operating or capital budget. This authorization shall include
appropriate insurance coverage for NIRC’s purchase of service carriers.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.042 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.
   The Executive Director may sign contracts and amendments, upon the
recommendation of the Chief Human Resources Officer, for employee benefit plans
necessary to competitively attract and retain NIRC’s employees, provided that
the Board has approved expenditure of the relevant funds through the annual
operating budget.
   (A)   These employee benefit plans may include medical, dental and vision
insurance plans, wellness programs, retirement benefit programs, 401(k) and 457
savings programs, pre-tax commuter, parking and health programs, life and
accidental death and dismemberment programs, short and long term disability
income protection programs, voluntary benefits programs and other programs
necessary for NIRC to competitively attract and retain NIRC’s employees,
provided that the Board has approved expenditure of the relevant funds through
the annual operating budget.
   (B)   All employee benefit plans signed without Board approval shall be
broadly available to all employees who meet objective qualification criteria,
which criteria shall be readily accessible to all employees. Except for
contributions required under a collective bargaining agreement, no special or
employee matching contributions shall be made to any 401(k) plans without Board
authority. No employee matching contributions shall be made to any 457 savings
plans without Board authority.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.043 GRANT AUTHORITY.
   The Executive Director may sign grant applications, agreements and
amendments involving the receipt of grant funds and agreements for the
disbursement of grant funds to government agencies or units of local government
and fixed facility agreements with transportation agencies, provided that the
Board has approved expenditure of the relevant funds through the annual
operating or capital budget.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
AMENDMENT AUTHORITY
§ 90.055 CONTRACTS EXECUTED UNDER THRESHOLD.
   For contracts that were properly signed without prior Board approval, the
Executive Director may sign any amendments provided that the total cost or
consideration to Metra of the underlying contract and all amendments does not
exceed the applicable authority limit. Once the threshold limitations are
reached, all subsequent amendments require prior Board approval. Where the
Executive Director’s authority in these regulations is limited by term or
duration, authority is granted to extend the term or duration of any document
for a period sufficient to allow Board review of a replacement agreement or
longer term extension.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.056 CONTRACTS EXECUTED OVER THRESHOLD.
   For contracts that were signed with prior Board approval, the Executive
Director may sign amendments to such contracts, but only up to and including an
increase of not more than 10% of such underlying contract’s original amount.
Once the additional threshold limitation is reached for a contract, all
subsequent amendments require prior Board approval.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.057 AMENDMENTS MAINTAINING OR REDUCING OBLIGATIONS.
   Contract amendments which maintain or reduce NIRC’s obligations or
liabilities do not require Board approval.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.058 CONTRACT EXTENSIONS PENDING NEGOTIATION.
   Contract amendments which extend the terms of a contract pending negotiation
of a new agreement may be signed by the Executive Director, so long as such
contract extension is under substantially the same terms, except for the
expiration date or termination provisions, until the succeeding contract is
approved by the Board, if otherwise required by this chapter.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
LITIGATION SETTLEMENT AUTHORITY
§ 90.080 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   The Executive Director is authorized to settle any claim or lawsuit on any
matter in an amount not to exceed $500,000. All such settlements must be upon
the written recommendation of each of the General Counsel, a senior supervisor
and a qualified attorney within the General Counsel’s office.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.081 GENERAL COUNSEL.
   The Executive Director is authorized to delegate authority to the General
Counsel to settle any claim or lawsuit on any matter in a settlement amount not
to exceed $150,000. All such settlements must be upon the written
recommendation of two appropriate supervisors within the General Counsel’s
office. The General Counsel is authorized to sign all documents necessary to
effectuate this authority.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.082 GENERAL COUNSEL’S DELEGATION.
   In the event that the Executive Director delegates authority to the General
Counsel to settle claims or lawsuits, the General Counsel is authorized to
delegate said authority to any appropriate supervisor within the General
Counsel’s office, in an amount not greater than the lesser of the authority
limit delegated to the General Counsel or $25,000. Any such settlement must be
upon the written recommendation of a claims agent or of another attorney in
addition to an appropriate supervisor within the General Counsel’s office. The
General Counsel’s delegation of authority shall include the authority to sign
all documents necessary to effectuate this authority.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.083 NON-REMUNERATIVE SETTLEMENTS.
   The Executive Director is authorized to settle any claim or lawsuit
involving remedies that are not primarily monetary in nature. Any such
settlement must be upon the written recommendation and concurrence of the
General Counsel. The Executive Director is authorized to sign all documents to
effectuate this authority. The Executive Director is authorized to delegate all
or any portion of this authority to the General Counsel, and, in such case, the
General Counsel is authorized to sign all documents to effectuate this
authority. Any such settlement by the General Counsel must be upon the written
recommendation of a senior supervisor within the General Counsel’s office.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 90.084 SETTLEMENTS REDUCING OBLIGATIONS.
   Settlements which maintain or reduce NIRC’s obligations or liabilities
created through judicial or other lawful order do not require Board approval.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC BIDDING
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Purpose
Public Bidding
   
91.015   General requirements
   
91.016   Sale or lease of real property
   
91.017   Exceptions
Other Solicitations
   
91.030   Methods
   
91.031   Design/build
   
91.032   Exempt solicitations
Procedures
   
91.045   Public notice
   
91.046   Content of public notice
   
91.047   Auction websites
   
91.048   Opening of bids
   
91.049   Records required
   
91.050   Determining lowest responsible bidders
   
91.051   Sureties
   
91.052   Rejection of bids or proposals
   
91.053   Interference with public contracting
Contracts
   
91.065   Appropriations and assignment of contracts
   
91.066   Conflicts of interest
   
91.067   Execution violating regulations
   
91.068   Rules of construction and applicability
   
91.069   Repeal
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted by the Board of the Northeast Illinois
Commuter Rail Corporation (“NIRC”) (“Board”), in accordance with the provisions
of the Regional Transportation Authority Act, 70 ILCS 3615/1 et seq. (“Act”),
to ensure a fair and transparent contracting process. The Board authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer/Executive Director (“Executive Director”), or the
Executive Director’s designee, to take such actions deemed necessary to
implement and administer these regulations, subject to Board oversight. The
Board reaffirms its disadvantaged business enterprise (“DBE”) commitments, its
desire to create a level playing field for DBEs and to remove barriers in
contracts for DBE participants. Consistent with the NIRC’s DBE commitments,
procurements shall be reviewed, in accordance with Ord. MET 12-08, or its
successor, to ensure DBE firms are provided an opportunity to participate in
all appropriate competitive solicitations.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
PUBLIC BIDDING
§ 91.015 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, all contracts or purchase
orders for the following transactions involving a cost of more than the amount
permitted pursuant to § 4.06 of the Act shall be let, after public notice and
with public bidding, to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder:
   (A)   The acquisition of services or public transportation facilities (other
than real estate);
   (B)   The construction, demolition, rehabilitation, renovation and building
maintenance projects for services or public transportation facilities; or
   (C)   The disposition of personal property, regardless of cost.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.016 SALE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, all contracts
for sale of fee simple interest in any real property, including, but not
limited to, air rights, of the NIRC, and for leases for 99 years or more of
real property of the NIRC shall be let after public notice and public bidding
to the highest responsive and responsible bidder.
      (2)   Leases of NIRC property for less than 99 years, but for more than
20 years, shall be offered for lease through the competitive negotiation
process or by engaging a licensed real estate broker, acting in NIRC’s sole
interest for the specific transaction.
      (3)   All proposed transactions arranged via licensed broker will appear,
at a minimum, on the consent agenda prior to execution.
   (B)   Any of the following may be entered into without public bidding:
      (1)   Leases of the NIRC’s property for 20 years or less;
      (2)   Third party property leased by the NIRC;
      (3)   The NIRC’s grant of easements or licenses for utility access;
      (4)   The exchange of reasonably equally valued property or rights in
property; or
      (5)   The transfer of interest in real property not readily marketable or
of general commercial
interest for consideration deemed sufficient by the Executive Director.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.017 EXCEPTIONS.
   The competitive bidding requirements of these regulations do not apply to:
   (A)   The acquisition of repair parts, accessories, equipment or services
previously furnished or contracted for;
   (B)   The immediate delivery of supplies, material or equipment or
performance of service when it is determined by the Chief Executive Officer/
Executive Director (“Executive Director”) that an emergency requires immediate
delivery or supply thereof, and there is a concurrence of two-thirds of the
then Directors, which concurrence is sought as soon as practicable;
   (C)   Goods or services that are economically procurable from only one
source. This exception also includes, but is not limited to, contracts with
railroads for trackage rights; contracts with railroads for crossing
agreements, the operation of joint facilities or for fixed facility agreements;
and contracts for excursion trains or equipment moves;
   (D)   Contracts for maintenance or servicing of equipment which are made
with the manufacturers or authorized service agents of that equipment where the
maintenance or servicing can best be performed by the manufacturer or
authorized service agent, or such a contract would be otherwise advantageous to
the NIRC. This exception shall not apply to contracts for plumbing, heating,
piping, refrigeration and automatic temperature control systems, ventilating
and distribution systems for conditioned air and electrical wiring;
   (E)   Goods or services procured from another governmental agency, including
assignments or joint government purchases;
   (F)   Purchases and contracts for the use or purchase of data processing
equipment and data processing systems software;
   (G)   The acquisition of professional or utility services. Professional
services are services the quality and reliability of which depend, in
substantial part, upon the individual skills, training, experience, ability or
qualifications of the person rendering such service. Professional services also
include, but are not limited to, the services of: experts, law firms, attorneys
and any other services necessary to conduct legal matters; services of
professional legislative consultants or related services necessary to promote
the interests of NIRC to federal, state and local government officials and
their staffs; the services of brokers or other fiduciary relationships; the
employee benefit providers or administrators acquired on behalf of the NIRC
directors, officers or employees; and actuaries, accountants, appraisers and
risk managers;
   (H)   The acquisition of public transportation equipment, including, but not
limited to, rolling stock and locomotives, provided that the following applies:
      (1)   It is determined by a vote of two-thirds of the then members of the
Board that a negotiated acquisition offers opportunities with respect to the
cost or financing of the equipment, its delivery or the performance of a
portion of the work within the state or the use of goods produced or services
provided within the state;
      (2)   A notice of intention to negotiate for the acquisition of such
public transportation equipment is published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City of Chicago inviting proposals from qualified
vendors;
      (3)   Any contract with respect to such acquisition is authorized by a
vote of two-thirds of the then members of the Board; and
      (4)   The request for proposals procedures apply to such acquisitions.
   (I)   Purchase of service agreements or other contracts, purchases or sales
entered into by the NIRC with any transportation agency or unit of local
government.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
OTHER SOLICITATIONS
§ 91.030 METHODS.
   Competitive solicitations, including requests for proposals, letters of
interest and qualifications, public private partnerships or other recognized
methods of procurement, may be utilized where public bidding is not required.
Written procedures shall be adopted prior to using any method of competitive
solicitation.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.031 DESIGN/BUILD.
   (A)   The Board may authorize, by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
then members of the Board, the use of competitive selection and the
prequalification of responsible bidders consistent with the applicable federal
regulations, state statutes and the guidance provided here.
   (B)   Two-phase design/build selection procedures shall consist of the
following.
      (1)   NIRC shall develop, through licensed architects or licensed
engineers, a scope of work statement for inclusion in the solicitation for
phase-one proposals that defines the project and provides prospective offerors
with sufficient information regarding the NIRC’s requirements. The statement
shall include criteria and preliminary design, and general budget parameters
and general schedule or delivery requirements to enable the offerors to submit
proposals which meet the NIRC’s needs. When the two-phase design/build
selection procedure is used and the NIRC contracts for development of the scope
of work statement, the Service Board shall contract for architectural or
engineering services, as defined by and in accordance with the Architectural,
Engineering and Land Surveying Qualifications Based Selection Act (30 ILCS 535/
1 et seq.) and all applicable licensing statutes.
      (2)   The evaluation factors to be used in evaluating phase-one proposals
must be stated in the solicitation and must include specialized experience and
technical competence, capability to perform, past performance of the offeror’s
team (including the architect-engineer and construction members of the team)
and other appropriate technical and qualifications factors. Each solicitation
must establish the relative importance assigned to the evaluation factors and
the subfactors that must be considered in the evaluation of phase-one proposals
on the basis of the evaluation factors set forth in the solicitation. Each
design/build team must include a licensed design professional independent from
the NIRC’s licensed architect or professional engineer and the licensed design
professional must be named in the phase-one proposals submitted to the Service
Board.
      (3)   (a)   On the basis of the phase-one proposal, the NIRC shall select
as the most highly qualified the number of offerors specified in the
solicitation and request the selected offerors to submit phase-two competitive
proposals and cost or price information. Each solicitation must establish the
relative importance assigned to the evaluation factors and the subfactors that
must be considered in the evaluation of phase-two proposals on the basis of the
evaluation factors set forth in the solicitation. NIRC may negotiate with the
selected design/build team after award but prior to contract execution for the
purpose of securing better terms than originally proposed, provided the salient
features of the design/build solicitation are not diminished.
         (b)   Each phase-two solicitation evaluates separately:
            1.   The technical submission for the proposal, including design
concepts or proposed solutions to requirements addressed within the scope of
work; and
            2.   The evaluation factors and subfactors, including cost or
price, that must be considered in the evaluations of proposals.
      (4)   A design/build solicitation issued under these procedures shall
state the maximum number of offerors that are to be selected to submit
competitive phase-two proposals. The maximum number specified in the
solicitation shall not exceed five unless the NIRC, with respect to an
individual solicitation, determines that a specified number greater than five
is in the best interest of the NIRC and is consistent with the purposes and
objectives of the two-phase design/build selection process.
      (5)   All designs submitted as part of the two-phase selection process
and not selected shall be proprietary to the preparers. NIRC may offer a
stipend.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.032 EXEMPT SOLICITATIONS.
   Contracts or purchase orders, where exempt from public bidding, may be
entered without competitive solicitation where approved by the Executive
Director, in accordance with the authority granted by the Board, or where
approved by the Board in open session.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
PROCEDURES
§ 91.045 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   All invitations for bid or competitive solicitations, involving an amount in
excess of the Simple Threshold identified in Ord. NIRC 19-01 (§
90.001), shall be published, on the website or succeeding technology, at least
ten business days prior to the requisite due date.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.046 CONTENT OF PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Public notice shall include:
      (1)   The general scope;
      (2)   Instructions on how to obtain the full solicitation;
      (3)   The initial date and time responses are due;
      (4)   Earnest money deposit or bid bond; if applicable, not to exceed 10%
of the proposed contract amount; and
      (5)   Whether physical or electronic submissions are allowed.
   (B)   The general scope may be revised, and the initial date and time due
may be extended, as needed, so long as a revised public notice, reflecting the
extended date and time due, is published at least five business days prior to
the revised requisite due date and time.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.047 AUCTION WEBSITES.
   The use of a publicly accessible auction internet site or application for
disposition of property shall be deemed to be with public notice and with
public bidding, provided Metra identifies the internet site or application
service(s) used at least ten business days prior to the first auction through
its own website or succeeding technology.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.048 OPENING OF BIDS.
   All bids shall be publicly opened or appropriately revealed in accordance
with a technology solution found by NIRC to uphold the integrity of the bidding
process.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.049 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   NIRC shall create a summary record of all bids for every purchase order or
contract solicited by public bidding. Such summary record shall identify the
successful bidder, and include the names of each unsuccessful bidder, where
available, along with corresponding bid amounts. NIRC shall retain a contract
file including a copy of each purchase order or contract, together with all
attachments, assignments, written consents, modifications, amendments and
change orders for as long as legal action against NIRC may ensue under
applicable statutes of limitation. For all grant funded procurements, the
contract file shall be kept in accordance with any grant conditions. The
summary record and contract file shall be made available to the public on
request, in accordance with the state law.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.050 DETERMINING LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDERS.
   In determining the responsibility of any bidder, in addition to the ability
to perform, the NIRC may take into account financial, or as permitted by law,
social responsibility and past performance.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.051 SURETIES.
   (A)   Sureties, including bonds, may be required for contract by law or when
NIRC finds such surety is required or in the public interest.
   (B)   The surety shall be in such amount as prescribed by law or deemed
adequate to:
      (1)   Ensure performance of the contract in the time and manner
prescribed in the contract; and
      (2)   Assure payment is made for labor or material used or reasonably
required for use in the performance of the contract.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.052 REJECTION OF BIDS OR PROPOSALS.
   NIRC may reject any bid or proposal, any part of any bid or proposal or all
bids or proposals for any reason at any time.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.053 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC CONTRACTING.
   NIRC may void any bid, proposal, purchase order, contract or change order
where NIRC has determined a violation of 720 ILCS 5/33E-1 et seq. has occurred.
NIRC shall disclose any such determination to the Attorney General of the
state.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
CONTRACTS
§ 91.065 APPROPRIATIONS AND ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for the purchase of goods or services over a period exceeding one
year are subject to the Board’s appropriation of funds. To the extent
practicable, contracts or purchase orders shall not be assignable or sublet by
the successful bidder without the prior, written authorization of the NIRC.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.066 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Members of the Board, officers and employees of the NIRC, their
spouses, their children, their parents, their brothers and sisters and their
children are prohibited from having or acquiring any contract or any direct
pecuniary interest in any contract which will be wholly or partially performed
by the payment of funds or the transfer of property of the NIRC. Any firm,
partnership, association or corporation from which any member of the Board,
officer or employee of the NIRC is entitled to receive more than 7.5% of the
total distributable income, is prohibited from having or acquiring any contract
or direct pecuniary interest in any contract which will be performed in whole
or in part by payment of funds or the transfer of property of the NIRC.
   (B)   Any firm, partnership, association or corporation from which members
of the Board, officers, employees of the NIRC, their spouses, their children,
their parents, their brothers and sisters and their children are entitled to
receive in the aggregate more than 15% of the total distributable income is
prohibited from having or acquiring any contract or direct pecuniary interest
in any contract which will be performed in whole or in part by the payment of
funds or the transfer of property of the NIRC. Nothing in this section
invalidates the provisions of any bond or security hereto or hereafter offered
for sale or sold by or for the NIRC.
   (C)   As provided in the common grant rules and in the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) Master Agreement, no employee, officer, agent or board
member, or his or her immediate family member, partner or organization that
employs, or is about to employ, any of the foregoing individuals, may
participate in the selection, award or administration of a contract supported
with FTA assistance if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be
involved. Such a conflict would arise when any of those individuals previously
listed has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for award.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.067 EXECUTION VIOLATING REGULATIONS.
   Any document signed in violation of these regulations shall be voidable by
the NIRC.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.068 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND APPLICABILITY.
   This title is intended for general applicability. If there is a conflict
between this title and an ordinance involving more specificity, the more
specific ordinance is intended to control if that ordinance was passed after
the passage of this title. If any one or more of a federal or state grant
agreement, applicable law or regulation, prescribe more strict regulations than
those enumerated herein, the NIRC shall follow the more strict regulations.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 91.069 REPEAL.
   (A)   The following ordinances or resolutions are repealed:
      (1)   NIRC 92-01 Amend RTA Regulations Regarding Bidding;
      (2)   IRC 94-01 Restating Regulations Regard Public Bidding;
      (3)   NIRC 95-01 Amend Regulations Regarding Public Bidding;
      (4)   NIRC 96-01 Amend Regulations Regarding Public Bidding;
      (5)   NIRC 02-01 Amend Regulations Regarding Public Bidding;
      (6)   NIRC 12-01 Revised Bidding Regulations; and
      (7)   NIRC 14-01 Bidding Regulations.
   (B)   These regulations shall supersede any prior ordinance and take
precedence and control over any
previously enacted conflicting ordinances, regulations, rules or policies.
(Ord. NIRC 19-01, passed 4-17-2019)
TITLE XI: AGREEMENTS
   Chapter
      
110.   PURCHASE AGREEMENTS
      
111.   FACILITIES AND CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENTS
      
112.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: PURCHASE AGREEMENTS
Section
   
110.001   Transfer of property agreements
   
110.002   Purchase agreements
   
110.003   Professional services agreements
   
110.004   Equipment lease agreements
§ 110.001 TRANSFER OF PROPERTY AGREEMENTS.
   The following table lists ordinances involving transfer of property
agreements.
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the proposed agreement between the Regional
                     Transportation Authority and the Northeast Illinois
                     Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation relating to the
                     transfer from the Authority to the Corporation of certain
                     real and personal property previously owned by the
NRC 82-8 12-16-1982  Authority and certain other real and personal property
                     acquired by the Authority pursuant to a judgment order
                     entered in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
                     District of Illinois, Eastern Division, in Regional
                     Transportation Authority v. William M. Gibbons, Trustee,
                     Case No. 81 C 0431
 
§ 110.002 PURCHASE AGREEMENTS.
   The following table lists ordinances involving purchase agreements.
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorization to make all purchases of fuel, materials,
                     accessories, equipment and services necessary for and
                     incidental to the continued operation of the public
NRC 80-6 3-20-1980   transportation services previously provided by the
                     Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company in the
                     Metropolitan Region of the Regional Transportation
                     Authority
                     Amendment to the purchase of service agreement between the
                     Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation
NRC-82-3 9-15-1982   and the Regional Transportation Authority to include the
                     provision of commuter railroad services on the lines of
                     the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad
                     Company as of October 1, 1982
                     Amendment No. 2 to the purchase of service agreement
NRC 89-1 6-16-1989   between the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional
                     Transportation Authority and the Northeast Illinois
                     Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation, dated May 28, 1981
 
§ 110.003 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENTS.
   The following table lists ordinances involving professional services
agreements.
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      The Chicago and North Western Transportation Company, as
                      operating contractor for the Northeast Illinois Regional
NRC 80-11 6-2-1980    Commuter Railroad Corporation, is authorized to sign a
                      letter agreement extending its agreed employment
                      relationship with the Rock Island employees engaged in
                      commuter services through and including June 30, 1980
                      Authorization for the Chairperson to employ those
                      employees necessary to the provision of public
                      transportation service in the Chicago, Rock Island and
                      Pacific Commuter Territory and to make all purchases of
NRC 81-4  5-20-1981   fuel, materials, accessories, equipment and services
                      necessary for and incidental to the continued operation
                      of the public transportation services previously provided
                      by the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company
                      in the Metropolitan Region of the Regional Transportation
                      Authority
                      Authorization for the Chairperson to employ those
                      employees necessary to the provision of public
                      transportation rail services in the Regional
                      Transportation Authority Metropolitan Region and to make
NRC-82-4  9-15-1982   all purchases of fuel, materials, accessories, equipment
                      and services necessary for and incidental to the
                      continued operation of public transportation rail
                      services previously provided in the Regional
                      Transportation Authority Metropolitan Region; repeals and
                      replaces Ord. NRC 82-1
                      Approving and authorizing the agreements between the
NRC-82-5  9-15-1982   Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation
                      and the labor organizations signatory thereto for the
                      uses and purposes therein set forth
                      Authorizing the agreement for professional engineering
                      services between the Regional Transportation Authority
NRC 82-10 12-16-1982  and the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
                      Corporation for the provision by the corporation of
                      certain professional engineering services in the design,
                      management and inspection of certain capital projects
 
§ 110.004 EQUIPMENT LEASE AGREEMENTS.
   The following table lists ordinances involving equipment lease agreements.
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Authorizing the proposed equipment lease agreement
                        between the Regional Transportation Authority and the
NRC 82-9    12-16-1982  Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
                        Corporation relating to the lease of certain rolling
                        stock from the authority to the corporation upon the
                        terms and conditions set forth in the agreement
                        Authorizing the equipment license agreement between
NIRCRC 98-1 8-14-1998   Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
                        Corporation and the Commuter Rail Division of the
                        Regional Transportation Authority
 
CHAPTER 111: FACILITIES AND CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT
Section
   
111.001   Fixed facilities agreements
   
111.002   Construction agreements
§ 111.001 FIXED FACILITIES AGREEMENTS.
   The following table lists ordinances involving fixed facilities agreements.
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Authorizing the proposed agreement between the Regional
NRC- 81-5 10-21-1981  Transportation Authority and the Northeast Illinois
                      Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation relating to the
                      construction of certain fixed facilities and track work
 
§ 111.002 CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENTS.
   The following table lists ordinances involving construction agreements.
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the proposed amendment between the Regional
                     Transportation Authority and the Northeast Illinois
NRC 82-2 7-23-1982   Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation relating to the
                     installation of Federal Rail Administration required
                     window glazing on certain locomotive units and other
                     commuter rail rolling stock
 
CHAPTER 112: INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
Section
   
112.001   Intergovernmental agreements
§ 112.001 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS.
   The following table lists ordinances involving intergovernmental agreements.
 
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
              Authorization to participate in a joint governmental purchasing program
NIRC   2-22-  with the state in accordance with the provisions of Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch.
91-1   1991   85, §§ 1601 through 1606, as amended from time to time (Joint Purchasing
              Act)
NIRC   3-14-  Authorizing the proposed agreement between the Northeast Illinois Regional
97-2   1997   Commuter Railroad Corporation and the Illinois Commerce Commission
              pursuant to the authority granted by the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act
              Authorizing the acknowledgment and assumption of the obligation agreement
NIRCRC 9-11-  between the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation and
98-2   1998   the Commuter Rail Division in substantially the form attached hereto this
              ordinance
              Approving the intergovernmental agreement between Cook County and the
              Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation for the
NIRC   4-27-  enforcement of the following ordinances: vandalism, damage to public
16-01  2016   property, public urination or defecation, theft of public services, drug
              paraphernalia, possession of cannabis, drinking on the public way,
              disorderly conduct and trespassing and Cook County Vehicle Code, §§ 82-
              1 through 82-193
 
TITLE XIII: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
   Chapter
      
130.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 130: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
130.001   Title
   
130.002   Definitions
   
130.003   Rules of construction
   
130.004   Section headings
   
130.005   Official time
   
130.006   Amendments to code
   
130.007   Conflicting provisions
   
130.008   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
130.009   Severability
   
130.010   Errors and omissions
   
130.011   Ordinances repealed
   
130.012   Ordinances unaffected
   
130.013   Ordinances saved
   
130.014   Historical and statutory references
§ 130.001 TITLE.
   This codification by and for the Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter
Railroad Corporation (“NIRCRC”) shall be designated as the Code of the NIRCRC
and may be so cited.
§ 130.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CORPORATION. The Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad Corporation.
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at county
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   METRA. The Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   NIRCRC or NIRC. The Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad
Corporation.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof, or any
commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning established in Article VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The county code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is unable to write,
his or her proper mark, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 130.003 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more county
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the County
Board may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 130.004 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 130.005 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time shall be as set by federal law.
§ 130.006 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the County Board.
§ 130.007 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 130.008 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in subsection (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; and
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 130.009 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 130.010 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 130.011 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 130.012 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 130.013 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the
County Board or a certain county officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 130.014 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985). An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   PERSONNEL
TABLE I: PERSONNEL
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
NRC 80-7      3-20-1980   Appointing Lewis W. Hill as Chairperson of the NIRCRC
NRC 82-6      12-16-1982  Appointing Edmund J. Wolf, Jr. as Secretary of the
                          NIRCRC
                          Authorizing additional compensation to Theresa
                          Barnett, Acting General Counsel; Jeffrey Barton,
NIRC 11-04    4-15-2011   Acting Senior Director, Labor Relations; Lynnette
                          Ciavarella, Acting Senior Division Director, Capital
                          and Strategic Planning; and Thomas Less, Acting
                          Senior Corporate Director, Financial Affairs
                          Processes while CEO position is vacant: Deputy
                          Executive Director of Operations reports to the
                          Board; Deputy Executive Director of Administration
                          reports to the Deputy Executive Director of
                          Operations; signature authority and other approval
NIRC 13-02    8-27-2013   power delegation transfers from the Deputy Executive
                          Director of Operations and the CEO to the Chairperson
                          of the Board or Acting Chairperson, or his or her
                          designee; Human Resources Department and other
                          departments that reported to CEO report to the Deputy
                          Executive Director of Operations; appointment of
                          interim CEO
                         
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites               Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01           130.003
5 ILCS 70/1.02           130.003
5 ILCS 70/1.03           130.003
5 ILCS 70/1.04           130.003
5 ILCS 70/1.05           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.08           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.09           130.003
5 ILCS 70/1.10           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.11           130.003
5 ILCS 70/1.12           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.15           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.16           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.17           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.24           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.28           130.002
5 ILCS 70/1.29           130.002
5 ILCS 70/2              130.003
5 ILCS 315/3             51.001
5 ILCS 430/10-15(8)      54.008
10 ILCS 5/1-3            51.001
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4          51.001
10 ILCS 5/9-3            51.001
                         70.003;
30 ILCS 235/0.01 et seq. 70.006;
                         70.017
30 ILCS 235/2.5          70.001;
                         70.017
30 ILCS 535/1 et seq.    91.031
65 ILCS 5                130.002
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2          130.002
70 ILCS 3615/1 et seq.   91.001
625 ILCS 5/1-188         130.002
720 ILCS 5/33E-1 et seq. 91.053
740 ILCS 174/1 et seq.   53.002
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
NRC 80-2    3-19-1980   10.005
NRC 80-3    3-19-1980   10.004
NRC 80-6    3-20-1980   110.002
NRC 80-7    3-20-1980   TSO Table I
NRC 80-11   6-2-1980    110.003
NRC 81-4    5-20-1981   110.003
NRC- 81-5   10-21-1981  111.001
NRC 82-2    7-23-1982   111.002
NRC-82-3    9-15-1982   110.002
NRC-82-4    9-15-1982   110.003
NRC-82-5    9-15-1982   110.003
NRC 82-6    12-16-1982  TSO Table I
NRC 82-8    12-16-1982  110.001
NRC 82-9    12-16-1982  110.004
NRC 82-10   12-16-1982  110.003
NRC-83-5    9-1-1983    11.001;
                        11.002
NRC 89-1    6-16-1989   110.002
NIRC 91-1   2-22-1991   112.001
                        30.001—
                        30.004;
                        30.015—
                        30.022;
                        31.001—
                        31.004;
                        31.015—
                        31.022;
                        32.001—
                        32.009;
                        32.020—
                        32.034;
                        32.045—
                        32.049;
                        33.001—
                        33.009;
                        33.020—
                        33.028;
                        33.040—
                        33.044;
                        34.001;
                        34.002;
                        34.015—
                        34.017;
                        34.030—
                        34.040;
                        34.055—
                        34.066;
                        34.080—
                        34.086;
NIRC 97-1   1-15-1997   34.100—
                        34.113;
                        35.001—
                        35.008;
                        35.020—
                        35.051;
                        35.065—
                        35.069;
                        35.080—
                        35.088;
                        36.001—
                        36.007;
                        36.020;
                        36.021;
                        36.035;
                        36.036;
                        36.050—
                        36.052;
                        36.065—
                        36.068;
                        36.080—
                        36.083;
                        36.095—
                        36.098;
                        36.110—
                        36.113;
                        36.125—
                        36.155;
                        36.156;
                        36.170—
                        36.173
NIRC 97-2   3-14-1997   112.001
NIRCRC 98-1 8-14-1998   110.004
NIRCRC 98-2 9-11-1998   112.001
NIRC 99-2   12-17-1999  70.001—
                        70.017
2000-       8-8-2000    10.002
                        51.001—
NIRC 04-01  5-11-2004   51.009;
                        51.999
NIRC 10-01  9-17-2010   50.001
NIRC 10-02  9-17-2010   52.001—
                        52.004
NIRC 10-03  9-17-2010   53.001—
                        53.008
NIRC 11-01  4-15-2011   10.001
NIRC 11-02  4-15-2011   10.003
NIRC 11-03  4-15-2011   10.020—
                        10.023
NIRC 11-04  4-15-2011   TSO Table I
NIRC 11-05  11-11-2011  10.035—
                        10.039
NIRC 13-01  3-15-2013   50.030-
                        50.039
NIRC 13-02  8-27-2013   TSO Table I
NIRC 15-01  10-15-2015  50.015—
                        50.019
NIRC 16-01  4-27-2016   112.001
NIRC 17-03  2-15-2017   54.001—
                        54.014
                        90.001—
                        90.010;
                        90.025;
                        90.026;
                        90.040—
                        90.043;
                        90.055—
                        90.058;
                        90.070—
NIRC 19-01  4-17-2019   90.074;
                        91.001;
                        91.015—
                        91.017;
                        91.030—
                        91.032;
                        91.045—
                        91.053;
                        91.065—
                        91.069
                       
 
 
