VILLAGE CODE
of
NORTH BARRINGTON, ILLINOIS
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-06, passed 7-24-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of North Barrington, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2024-06, passed July 24, 2024.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal
                     Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
 
March 2024
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
NORTH BARRINGTON VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
1-1-4: Amendments; Insertions; Deletions
1-1-5: Distribution Of Code Copies
1-1-6: Code Alterations
1-1-7: Jurisdiction
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of
North Barrington. This Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the NORTH
BARRINGTON VILLAGE CODE, or the VILLAGE CODE OF NORTH BARRINGTON, or the
VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and
shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the Village
as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-2018)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-2018)
1-1-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this Code, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any
provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter
than the general provision imposed by the Village Code, the provision imposing
the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. (Ord.
1317, 1-24-2018)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS; INSERTIONS; DELETIONS:
Any ordinance amending or altering the Village Code shall set forth the title,
chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, inserted,
and/or deleted, and unless otherwise provided, this shall constitute sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the amendment or
revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such amendments,
insertions, deletions and/or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately
forwarded to the Village Clerk, and the said ordinance material shall be
prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and distributed as set forth in
section
1-1-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-2018)
1-1-5: DISTRIBUTION OF CODE COPIES:
All of the printed copies of this Code belonging to the Village shall be
deposited with the Clerk. The Clerk shall deliver one copy thereof to the
President and each member of the Board of Trustees, and copies to such other
persons as the President and Board of Trustees may direct. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-
2018)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted or which will cause
the law of the Village to be misrepresented thereby. Replacement pages may be
inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Village Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of
the Clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of the Village Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
Office of the Village Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
Village and shall be returned to the Office of the Village Clerk when directed
so to do by order of the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-2018)
1-1-7: JURISDICTION:
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, this Code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the Village. Provisions of this Code also apply
to acts performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed
by law where the law confers power on the Village to regulate such particular
acts outside the corporate limits. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-2018)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Enforcement Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this code are hereby
repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained in the following sections), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances;
ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; ordinances relating to
appointments; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the Village; the official comprehensive plan; and all special
ordinances. (1977 Code §
1-2-1; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which has
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (1977 Code §
1-1-6; amd. 2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the Village code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance. (1977 Code
§
1-2-2)
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (1977 Code §
1-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
The sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, clauses and phrases of
this code are severable, and if any section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code or any part thereof is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional, invalid, unenforceable or ineffective
by a valid judgment or decree by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, invalidity, unenforceability or ineffectiveness shall not
affect any of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The
Village Board of Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1977 Code §
1-1-7; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this Code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and
meaning of the Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has
been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the Village ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-2018)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto.
Other words and terms used in this Code, unless specifically defined by these
definitions or elsewhere in this Code, shall have the meaning presented by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, as may be amended from time to time, for the same
words and terms.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD, BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the
President and Trustees of the Village of North Barrington.
CODE: The Village Code of the Village of North Barrington.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which any act provided by law is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed
in any statute now or hereafter in force in this State, and then it shall also
be excluded. If the day succeeding such Saturday, Sunday, or holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The President and Board of Trustees.
CORPORATE LIMITS OR VILLAGE LIMITS: The legal boundaries of the Village of
North Barrington.
COUNTY: The County of Lake, State of Illinois.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY: Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a
department or some other Village officer to do some act or perform some duty,
it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer
to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act
or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify
otherwise.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of North Barrington".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or for the issuance of any permit or acceptance of an
application for permit.
FISCAL YEAR: The "fiscal year" for the Village of North Barrington shall begin
on May 1 and end on the April 30 of the following year.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons, firms, partnerships
and corporations.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers unless otherwise provided by ordinance or statute.
KNOWINGLY: The word "knowingly" imports only a knowledge that facts exist which
brings the act or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does not
require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Pursuant to an
intergovernmental agreement, the Village has contracted with the Lake County
Sheriff's Department to enforce State Statutes and County and Village
ordinances, including, but not limited to, traffic enforcement and criminal and
civil enforcement.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this Code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by State law.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE AND NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the sensibilities of reasonable
persons, or any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health
and welfare of inhabitants of the Village, or any activity which by its
perpetuation can reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the
property of a person or persons within the community.
NUMBER: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to
several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of North Barrington".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
joint venture, limited liability company, organization, government or any other
group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person. The word "person" shall
include the singular and the plural.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAIL: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale at retail.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET OR ROADWAY: Shall include streets, avenues, roads, boulevards, alleys,
lanes, courts, viaducts, public ways, public squares, public places and
sidewalks, and all areas between the property lines and dedicated, by common
law or otherwise, to the public use.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding possession of the building or land pursuant to a written or oral lease
or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or
with others, excluding the owner of the premises.
TRUSTEE OR TRUSTEES: Elected or appointed members of the Board of Trustees.
VILLAGE: The Village of North Barrington, County of Lake, State of Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-2018)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Village Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (Ord. 1317, 1-24-2018)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Payment For Minor Offenses
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalties Enumerated: Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the
Village, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in this code or any ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or a
misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of
any such provision of this code or any ordinance shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A penalty imposed for
violation of an ordinance may include, or consist of, a requirement that the
defendant perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not limited
to, the picking up of litter in public parks or along public highways or the
maintenance of public facilities. Each day any violation of any provision of
this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense. (1977 Code § 1-1-8; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Incarceration For Misdemeanor: If, by the terms of an ordinance, an act
that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state, is declared to be
a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of incarceration in a
penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed six (6) months, and
the matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal procedure of the
state, and the Village shall be required to establish guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt. This subsection shall not apply to Village code provisions adopted
pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 11-5-1, 11-5-2, 11-5-3, 11-5-4, 11-5-
5, 11-5-6, 11-40-1, 11-40-2, 11-40-2a, 11-40-3, 11-80-9 and 11-80-16. (2004
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code which does not provide for a specific
penalty as though it were a part of each and every separate section. (2004
Code)
   B.   One Judgment Only: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (1977 Code § 1-1-9)
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2004 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Village Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1977 Code § 1-1-10)
1-4-4: PAYMENT FOR MINOR OFFENSES:
   A.   Citation Instead Of Complaint Authorized: Whenever a police officer is
authorized to arrest a person without a warrant because of a violation of an
ordinance or this code with respect to any of the following subjects, he may,
in lieu of filing a complaint in court, in the first instance, issue to the
violator a citation:
      1.   Any violation of this code relative to the parking of a vehicle
(title 7, chapter 5 of this code) 1 .
      2.   Requiring the purchase and display of a vehicle sticker (title 7,
chapter 2 of this code) 2 .
      3.   Any violation of this code relative to the regulating of dogs and
cats or the licensing of dogs (title 6, chapter 2 of this code).
      4.   Any violation of this code relative to the regulating and licensing
of businesses (title 3 of this code). (1977 Code § 8-8-1)
   B.   Contents Of Citations: Citations issued pursuant to subsection A of
this section shall contain language:
      1.   Advising said person that he has violated a specified ordinance;
      2.   Requesting him to make payment in an amount applicable to said
alleged violation as set forth in subsection E of this section as settlement of
said violation claim; and (1977 Code § 8-8-2)
      3.   Informing him that upon failure to so settle, a complaint will be
filed in the circuit court of the 19th judicial circuit court, charging him
with such violation, and such citation constitutes a notice to appear to answer
such complaint. (1977 Code § 8-8-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Payment In Lieu Of Fine Authorized:
      1.   Pursuant to a citation issued as set forth in this section, the
person so accused of said violation may settle and compromise the violation
claim with respect to such ordinance violation by paying to the Village the
applicable amount as shown in the schedule set forth in subsection E of this
section, within a period to be specified in said citation but not more than
seven (7) days from the time said alleged offense was committed. (1977 Code §
8-8-3)
      2.   Such payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions
contained in the citation at the office of the Village Clerk or the law
enforcement agency, and a receipt shall issue for the money so received, if
requested to do so, and shall promptly remit said amount to the Village
Collector who shall deposit said amount with the Village Treasurer to be
credited to the proper Village fund. (1977 Code § 8-8-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Procedure Upon Nonpayment: In the event that the person to whom a
citation is issued pursuant to this section fails to settle and pay said
violation claim within the prescribed time, or within a period of time
specified in a final notice, then the Village or the Village law enforcement
agency is authorized to file a complaint and to prosecute the same in the 19th
judicial circuit court. (1977 Code § 8-8-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Amounts Of Payments:
      1.   The violation claim described in a citation issued pursuant to the
terms of this section may be settled, compromised and paid in the respective
amounts set forth in the following schedule:
a. In the event that said payment is made within seven (7) days after the
issuance of the citation, the following amounts shall be accepted as
settlement:
a. In the event that said payment is made within seven (7) days after the
issuance of the citation, the following amounts shall be accepted as
settlement:
Any violation of this code relative to parking of a vehicle       $ 25.00
Any violation of this code relative to requiring the purchase and 25.00
display of a vehicle sticker
Any violation of this code relative to the regulating of dogs and
cats or the licensing of dogs
 First offense Each successive offense                        25.00 50.00
Any violation of this code relative to the regulating and         100.00
licensing of businesses
b. In the event that payment has not been paid within seven (7) days after the
issuance of the citation, and in fact, the final notice has been mailed, the
following amounts shall be accepted as settlement:
Any violation of this code relative to the parking of a vehicle   $50.00
Any violation of this code relative to requiring the purchase and 50.00
display of a vehicle sticker
Any violation of this code relative to the regulating of dogs and
cats or the licensing of dogs
 First offense Each successive offense                        50.00 100.00
Any violation of this code relative to the regulating and         200.00
licensing of businesses
 
(1977 Code § 8-8-5; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   In the event that payment is not made within the time prescribed in
the final notice, and a complaint is filed in the circuit court, payment of any
fine and costs shall be in such amounts as may be determined and established by
the circuit court. (1977 Code § 8-8-6)
   F.   Presumption Of Traffic Violation 3 : The fact that an automobile or
motor vehicle which is illegally operated or parked is then currently
registered with the secretary of state in the name of said alleged violator,
or, in the alternative, in the event that a then current vehicle sticker issued
by a municipality has been issued in the name of and to said alleged violator,
shall be considered prima facie proof that said alleged violator was in control
of, or had authorized the use of, or was the operator of the automobile or
motor vehicle at the time of such alleged violation. (1977 Code § 8-8-7; amd.
2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-1-3 of this code.
2 2. See also section
  7-1-3 of this code.
3 1. See also subsection 7-10-4B of this code.
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Bond; Oath; Compensation
1-5-2: Powers And Duties
1-5-3: Unanticipated Expenditures
1-5-4: President Pro Tem; Temporary Chair
1-5-1: BOND; OATH; COMPENSATION:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President shall give a bond
with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon his
faithful performance of his duties, in the sum of three thousand dollars
($3,000.00). He shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute and
shall receive such compensation as may be set from time to time by the Board.
(Ord. 1318, 2-28-2018)
1-5-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Village President is the Chief Executive Officer of the Village, with
duties and rights and powers prescribed by laws of the State, by this Code, or
by "Robert's Rules of Order" (when not in conflict with State law or this
Code). In addition, the President shall perform all such other duties and have
all additional powers that are or may be prescribed by the laws of the State or
the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 1318, 2-28-2018)
1-5-3: UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES:
The Village President has authority to spend up to twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) without previous Board approval solely upon his authority for
unanticipated or emergency expenditures. Any such expenditures shall be
presented to the Village Board at the next meeting practicable. (Ord. 1333, 9-
26-2018)
1-5-4: PRESIDENT PRO TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIR:
   A.   President Pro Tem: If a temporary absence from the Village or
disability of the President incapacitates him or her from the performance of
his or her duties but does not create a vacancy in the office, the President
Pro Tem, during such absence or disability of the President, shall perform the
duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President. The President
Pro Tem shall be a member of the Board of Trustees and shall be elected by a
simple majority of the Board of Trustees, at the first Board meeting following
the incapacity of the President, and shall serve until the President's
incapacity ends or until a new President takes office, whichever occurs first.
Nothing in this section shall deprive the President Pro Tem from voting in his
or her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote
in his or her capacity as President Pro Tem.
   B.   Temporary Chair: If the President or President Pro Tem is unable or
fails to attend a meeting of the Board of Trustees, the Board shall elect a
temporary Chair who shall have the power of the presiding officer and the right
to vote in his capacity as Trustee. (Ord. 1318, 2-28-2018)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Elected Officials; Qualifications; Term
1-6-2: Meetings
1-6-3: Quorum
1-6-4: Order Of Business
1-6-5: Procedures
1-6-6: Trustee Liaison To Commissions And Zoning Board Of Appeals
1-6-7: Additional Board Assignments
1-6-8: Remote Attendance At Meetings
1-6-1: ELECTED OFFICIALS; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM:
The Board of Trustees shall consist of the Village President and six (6)
Trustees, who shall be citizens of the United States, qualified electors and
shall have resided in the Village at least one year next preceding the
election. They shall hold office for four (4) years, three (3) Trustees to be
elected every two (2) years, and until their successors are elected and
qualified, unless otherwise provided by law. (1977 Code §
2-3-1; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall
be held on the third Wednesday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.,
unless otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees. The regular meeting place
shall be the North Barrington Village Hall unless otherwise ordered by the
Board.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Village
President or any three (3) Trustees. Public notice of any special meeting,
except a meeting held in the event of a bona fide emergency, shall be given at
least forty eight (48) hours before such meeting, which notice shall also
include the agenda for the special meeting. Notice shall be given to the
President and the Trustees and otherwise as then required by statute.
   C.   Time Limit For Meetings: Regular, special and committee meetings of the
Village Board shall not extend beyond ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (central time),
except closed sessions, unless authorized by a majority vote of the Board of
Trustees or committee members.
   D.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the Village Board of Trustees shall be
open to the public unless otherwise excepted by law. (1977 Code § 2-3-3; amd.
2004 Code; Ord. 889, 5-20-2002; Ord. 1164, 8-15-2009; Ord. 1359; 12-18-2019)
1-6-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the President and Trustees then holding office shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but no ordinance shall be passed except upon the
favorable vote of a majority of the corporate authorities then holding office,
as provided by statutes. (1977 Code § 2-3-6; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-4: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Order Of Business Established: The order of business of the Board of
Trustees shall be as follows:
      1.   Roll call.
      2.   Approval of minutes of the preceding meeting.
      3.   Other matters in the order set forth on the agenda.
      4.   Adjournment.
   B.   Changes: The corporate authorities, by majority vote, can change the
order of business.
   C.   Agenda: The agenda shall be prepared by the President or pursuant to
the President's direction. (1977 Code § 2-3-7)
1-6-5: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Voting By President: The President of the Board of Trustees shall not
vote except in the following situations:
      1.   The vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie; or
      2.   When one-half (1/2) of the Trustees have voted in favor of any
ordinance, resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote; or
      3.   When a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities is
required by state statute or local ordinance to adopt an ordinance, resolution
or motion. (2004 Code)
   B.   Robert's Rules Of Order: Insofar as the procedures for the conduct of
meetings and actions of the corporate authorities or any commission, committee
or officer are not regulated by state statutes, this code or any other
ordinance or resolution of the Village, "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern.
(1977 Code § 2-3-5)
   C.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any
meeting of the Board of Trustees or of any committee thereof. (1977 Code § 2-3-
9; amd. Ord. 1206, 6-29-2011)
   D.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statutes, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting. (1977 Code § 2-3-10; amd. Ord. 1206, 6-29-2011)
1-6-6: TRUSTEE LIAISON TO COMMISSIONS AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Liaison Appointed: One or more trustees may be appointed by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees to the following
commissions and boards of the Village as the same shall exist from time to
time:
Environmental and Health Commission
Ethics Commission
Finance and Budget Commission
Parks and Recreation Commission
Plan Commission
Zoning Board of Appeals (Ord. 895, 7-22-2002; amd. Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord.
1129, 12-17-2007)
   B.   Notice Of Meetings: The assigned Trustee liaison shall be notified of
such meeting of the commission or board at least forty eight (48) hours in
advance thereof. (Ord. 895, 7-22-2002)
1-6-7: ADDITIONAL BOARD ASSIGNMENTS:
In addition to liaisons to commissions and boards, there are responsibilities
within the Village which may be assigned to Trustees for areas of concentrated
diligence. These assignments are made by the Village President with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees and may include, but are not limited to:
roads, stormwater management, building, mosquito abatement, utilities, legal,
newsletter editor, website manager, Village lands, police, fire and public
safety. (Ord. 895, 7-22-2002)
1-6-8: REMOTE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
A.   A trustee may attend a regular or special meeting without being physically
present if physical attendance is prevented by:
   1.   Personal illness or disability;
   2.   Absence from the Village for personal employment purposes or for
Village business;
   3.   Family or other emergency, which emergency shall be stated on the
record and be part of the minutes of that meeting.
B.   If a trustee wishes to attend a regular or special meeting of the Village
Board by electronic means, the trustee must notify the Village Clerk before the
meeting unless advanced notice is impractical.
C.   The clerk, after receiving the electronic attendance request, shall inform
the Village Board of the request for electronic attendance. After establishing
that there is a quorum physically present at a meeting where a member of the
Village Board desires to attend electronically, the presiding officer shall
state that (i) a notice was received by a member of the Village Board in
accordance with Village ordinance, and (ii) the member of the Village Board
will be deemed authorized to attend the meeting electronically unless a motion
objecting to the member's electronic attendance is made, seconded, and approved
by two thirds of the members of the Village Board physically present at the
meeting. If no such motion is made and seconded or if any such motion fails to
achieve the required vote by the members of the Village Board physically
present at the meeting, then the request by the member of the Village Board to
attend the meeting electronically shall be deemed approved by the Village
Board.
D.   If the trustee who is attending electronically would normally chair the
meeting, a president pro tempore who is physically present may be appointed.
E.   No more than two (2) trustees may attend a regular or special meeting by
electronic means for any one meeting. Participation through electronic means
shall be recognized in the order the request to the village clerk is received.
Participation by a trustee by electronic means shall include any closed
sessions called during that meeting.
F.   A quorum of the board of trustees must be physically present for any
public meeting.
G.   This section shall apply in like manner to any subsidiary committee,
subcommittee or other agency of the Village that is a "public body" under the
Illinois Open Meetings Act. (Ord. 1351, 9-25-2019)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; APPOINTED MEMBERS OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Applicability Of Provisions
1-7-2: Residency Requirements
1-7-3: Date Of Expiration Of Office; Term Of Office
1-7-4: Oath And Bond
1-7-5: Restrictions On Elected And Appointed Officials
1-7-6: Duties
1-7-7: Inspection Of Records
1-7-8: Indemnification Of Officers And Employees
1-7-9: Conflict Of Interest
1-7-10: Removal From Office
1-7-11: Vacations
1-7-12 Paid Leave Required For Eligible Village Employees
1-7-13:    Village Exemption From The Requirements Of The Paid Leave For All
Workers Act
1-7-14 - 1-7-49: Reserved
1-7-50:    Authorization To Employ Village Administrator; Appointment
1-7-51:    Village Administrator; Bond
1-7-52:    Village Administrator; Compensation
1-7-53:    Powers And Duties Of Village Administrator
1-7-54:    Removal Of Village Administrator
1-7-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all officers, elected officials,
appointed members of the boards and commissions and employees generally,
regardless of the time of the creation of the office or position, at the time
of the appointment of the officer or employee. All employees of the Village are
employed "at-will", and no officer, elected official, appointed member, and/or
employee shall have a claim to a guarantee of any particular benefits,
procedures, terms or conditions, except as required by law, and only the Board
of Trustees may alter an existing "at-will" employment relationship by
enactment of a written agreement. (Ord. 1346, 6-26-2019)
1-7-2: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
All elected Village officials and all members of the Plan Commission 1  and
Zoning Board of Appeals 2  shall be qualified electors living in the Village,
except to the extent that nonresidency is permitted for members of the Plan
Commission by the Illinois Municipal Code 3 . All elected officials, or persons
appointed to an elective Village office, shall be qualified electors and shall
have resided in the Village at least one year next preceding their election or
appointment. Any such elected official or member of the Plan Commission (other
than a member living outside of the Village at the time of his appointment) or
Zoning Board of Appeals who does not regularly reside in the Village for a
period of one hundred thirty five (135) days, shall forfeit the office in
question upon the passage of a resolution by the Corporate Authorities;
provided however, that the Corporate Authorities may, in their discretion,
waive the requirement of forfeiture for good cause shown, such as, but not
limited to, temporary absence from the Village due to fire or other destruction
or substantial damage to the regular dwelling place of the individual within
the Village. (1977 Code §
2-1-8; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this Code.
2 2. See title 2, chapter 2 of this Code.
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4.
1-7-3: DATE OF EXPIRATION OF OFFICE; TERM OF OFFICE:
Unless otherwise specified, all appointed officers, whether appointed for one
year or more, shall serve for terms expiring on June 30, or until their
respective successors are appointed and qualify. Unless otherwise specified or
required by law, all appointed officials shall serve a term of one year or, in
the case of a mid-term vacancy, the duration of the original one year term.
(Ord. 1330, 7-25-2018)
1-7-4: OATH AND BOND:
   A.   Oath Required: Every officer of the Village shall, before entering upon
his duties, take the oath prescribed by statute. (1977 Code §
2-1-3)
   B.   Bond: Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Corporate
Authorities or State Statute, prior to entering upon the duties of his office,
give a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the
Corporate Authorities, such sureties to be rated AA-1, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of his office or position, to be approved by
the Corporate Authorities. (1977 Code §
2-1-5; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-5: RESTRICTIONS ON ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS:
Unless specifically waived by resolution of the Village Board:
   A.   No elected official shall serve as a member of the Zoning Board of
Appeals or Plan Commission of the Village.
   B.   No official elected to a Village office or to any other elective office
shall serve as an appointed official of the Village.
   C.   No appointed Village official shall serve as an appointed or elected
official of the Village in any capacity other than in the position to which
such person was appointed. (1977 Code §
2-1-9)
1-7-6: DUTIES:
   A.   Monies To Treasurer: Every officer of the Village shall turn over all
monies received by him in his official capacity to the Treasurer with a
statement showing the source from which the same was received. (1977 Code §
2-1-2)
   B.   Property To Successor: Every officer and employee of the Village, upon
the expiration of his term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his
successor all books and records which may be the property of the Village, but
if there is no successor, to the Village Clerk. (1977 Code §
2-1-6)
1-7-7: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
All records kept by any officer of the Village shall be open to inspection by
the president or, upon vote of the corporate authorities, by any member of the
Board of Trustees at all reasonable times, whether or not such records are
required to be kept by statute or ordinance. (1977 Code §
2-1-4; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-8: INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    EMPLOYEE: Includes all employees of the Village.
   OFFICER: Includes any elected or appointed official of the Village. (1977
Code § 1-1-14)
   B.   Indemnification Responsibilities Of Village: If any claim or action is
instituted against any present officer or employee or former officer or
employee of the Village based on an injury or event allegedly arising out of an
act or omission occurring within the scope of his employment or official duties
as such employee or officer, the Village shall, to the extent permitted by law:
(1977 Code § 1-1-14; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   Appear and defend against the claim or action; and
      2.   Indemnify the officer or employee or former officer or employee for
his attorney fees and court costs incurred in the defense of such claim or
action; and
      3.   Indemnify the officer or employee or former officer or employee for
any judgment based on such claim or action; or
      4.   Indemnify the officer or employee or former officer or employee for
any compromise or settlement of such a claim or action if approved in advance
by the Village.
Provided, however, that the Village shall not indemnify any officer or employee
for any portion of a judgment representing an award of punitive or plenary
damages.
   C.   Interpretation And Application Of Provisions:
      1.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as waiving any defense of
the Village or its employees or officers, including, but not limited to, any
defense provided by the Illinois local governmental and governmental employees
tort immunity act 1  as it may exist from time to time, in any action brought
against the Village or such officer or employee.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall apply only where the Village
has been given notice of any actions brought against any Village employee or
officer, based upon any action of such employee or officer within the scope of
his authority as such. Any Village officer or employee against whom a claim or
action is instituted shall notify the Village of such claim in writing within
thirty (30) days of service of process upon said officer or employee. (1977
Code § 1-1-14)
 
Notes
1 1. 745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.
1-7-9: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   A.   Conflict Of Interest: It is in the interest of the Village and its
citizens that all officers of the Village avoid any conflicts of interest and
also avoid the appearance of conflict of interest or other improprieties. (1977
Code § 2-1-11)
   B.   Statute Provisions:
      1.   65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-55-10 provides, in applicable
part:
(a) A municipal officer shall not be interested, directly or indirectly, in his
own name or in the name of any other person, association, trust or corporation,
in any contract, work or business of the municipality, or in the sale of any
article whenever the expense, price or consideration of the contract, work,
business or sale is paid either from the treasury or by any assessment levied
by any statute or ordinance. A municipal officer shall not be interested,
directly or indirectly in the purchase of any property which: i) belongs to the
municipality, or ii) is sold for taxes or assessments, or iii) is sold by
virtue of legal process at the suit of the municipality. (Then follow certain
exceptions).
      2.   50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/3 also contains prohibitions
against persons holding any office under the laws or constitution of the state
being interested, directly or indirectly, in contracts and the performance of
certain work.
      3.   All present elected and appointed officials of the Village shall be
provided with a copy of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-55-10 and of 50
Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/3, by the Village Clerk, and all newly elected
or appointed officials shall be provided with such copy within thirty (30) days
after their election or appointment.
   C.   Nepotism Deemed Conflict Of Interest: It shall be considered improper
and a conflict of interest by the Village if there is employed by the Village,
directly or indirectly, a relative of any elected or appointed Village officer
having the following relationship: spouse, descendent, brother or sister, aunt
or uncle, niece or nephew, or cousin. This subsection shall not apply to any
contract entered into as a result of the request by the Village for competitive
bids where the person or entity awarded this contract is the lowest responsible
bidder. (1977 Code § 2-1-11; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-10: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals, Plan Commission or other commission
of the Village, without excuse deemed adequate to the Board of Trustees, may be
removed from office and such office declared vacant if such person fails to
attend three (3) consecutive meetings, or more than a total of five (5) in a
twelve (12) month period, of the board or commission of which such person is a
member, upon resolution approved by the Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-1-10;
amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-11: VACATIONS:
A.   Vacation Eligibility. Full-time employees, defined as those who work an
average of thirty-seven and a half (37.5) hours per week or more, are eligible
to receive paid vacation based on the year of service with the Village. The
number of vacation days for which each employee is eligible shall be based on a
calendar year (January 1 - December 31) and accrues for each full month of
employment, according to the schedule set forth below.
 
Year of Service    Hours Per Work Week Accrued Hours Per Annual Vacation Days
                                       Month             Per Year
Date of Hire -     37.5                3.125             5
December 31st
2nd - 5th Years    37.5                6.250             10
6th - 15th Years   37.5                9.375             15
16th or More Years 37.5                12.50             20
 
B.   Vacation Benefit. The first year of employment for all eligible employees
shall begin with the date of hire and shall end on December 31st of that year.
At the beginning of each calendar year thereafter, eligible employees will be
allotted vacation hours equal to the amount the employee will accrue in that
calendar year. An employee who leaves the employment of the Village in the
first six months will forfeit all vacation accrued.
C.   No Carryover of Vacation Days. Vacation time may not be carried over from
one calendar year to the next and must be used in the calendar year in which it
is earned, unless otherwise approved by the Board.
D.   Requests for Vacations. Prior to taking accrued vacation time, employees
must request approval from the Village Administrator. The Village President
will review requests in the absence of a Village Administrator, or Village
Administrator vacation requests. All vacation requests will be reviewed based
on several factors, including business needs and staffing requirements.
Vacation time may be taken in increments of not less than 4 hours at a time.
E.   Part Time and Temporary Employees. Employees who work an average of less
than thirty-seven and a half (37.5) hours per week, and temporary employees
shall not be entitled to vacations or vacation pay.
F.   Vacation at Separation. Employees who end their employment with accrued,
but unused vacation hours will be paid for those hours. If an employee leaves
the employment of the Village having taken vacation time in excess of hours
accrued, the employee is responsible for reimbursing the Village for the
unaccrued vacation hours taken. The Village can deduct these unaccrued vacation
hours from the employee's final paycheck. (Ord. 1358, 12-18-2019)
1-7-12: PAID LEAVE REQUIRED FOR ELIGIBLE VILLAGE EMPLOYEES:
The Village of North Barrington shall provide eligible employees of the Village
with paid leave as provided for in the Village's Code of Ordinances, Employee
Handbook, Annual Salary Ordinances, any collective bargaining agreements to
which the Village is a party and all other binding legislative actions
governing paid leave adopted by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village, as the same may be amended from time to time. However, in no event
shall the Village, as an employer, provide less than one (1) day of paid leave
(or prorated equivalent) per year to any eligible Village employee. (Ord. 2023-
10, 12-20-2023)
1-7-13: VILLAGE EXEMPTION FROM THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE PAID LEAVE FOR ALL
WORKERS ACT:
The Village, as an employer, shall have no additional obligations with regard
to mandatory paid leave, including, without limitation, any obligations
provided under the Paid Leave of All Workers Act (820 ILCS 192/1 et seq.),
except those obligations required by Federal and/or state law which validly
preempt the Village's authority. (Ord. 2023-10, 12-20-2023)
1–7-14 - 1-7-49: RESERVED:
1-7-50: AUTHORIZATION TO EMPLOY VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR; APPOINTMENT:
The Village President and Board of Trustees are hereby authorized to employ a
Village Administrator. Such Administrator shall be appointed by the Village
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The
Village Administrator shall also serve as the Budget Officer for the Village,
subject to appointment by the Village President and with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 1355, 11-20-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-03, 4-15-2020)
1-7-51: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR; BOND:
The Village Administrator shall furnish a bond in such amount and with such
surety as may be approved by the corporate authorities, such bond to be
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties. The cost of the
bond shall be paid by the Village. The bond of the Village Administrator may be
part of a blanket bond. (Ord. 1355, 11-20-2019)
1-7-52: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR; COMPENSATION:
The Village Administrator shall receive such compensation as the Corporate
Authorities shall, from time to time, establish.
(Ord. 1355, 11-20-2019)
1-7-53: POWERS AND DUTIES OF VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR:
The Village Administrator shall have the following powers and duties:
(A)   Provide for the enforcement of all laws and ordinances within the
Village.
(B)   Attend all regular meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, as well as
Committee and Commission meetings, unless excused by the Village President, and
prepare and coordinate their agendas and meeting schedules.
(C)   Develop policies and procedures necessary for the operation of the
Village and present them to the Village President and Board of Trustees for
approval.
   Provide the Board of Trustees with adequate information to help it reach
sound decisions and establish policies.
(D)   Direct, supervise and coordinate the activities of all departments,
offices, and agencies of the Village, except as otherwise provided by law, and
to administer the affairs of the Village to ensure that all Village business is
accomplished efficiently and economically.
(E)   Evaluate all employees and conduct performance reviews with the Village
President, and responsibility for all personnel matters and employee benefits,
including recommendations for hiring, promotions, demotions, discipline, and
suspensions of all employees pursuant to the personnel policy.
(F)   Sign on behalf of the Village any contract authorized by Board of
Trustees, except where the Board of Trustees or state statutes direct that some
other officer shall do so. It shall be the duty of the Village Administrator to
ensure that all franchises granted by, and all contracts with, the Village are
faithfully kept and performed; by all parties hereto.
(G)   Preparation of the annual budget in conjunction with the Finance
Committee and submit to Village Board of Trustees for approval, and
responsibility for compliance with all statutes and ordinances pertaining to
finances, appropriations, and levies. Keep the Village Board advised of the
financial condition and future needs of the Village and make such
recommendations as he/she shall deem advisable.
(H)   Establish and coordinate a system of purchasing, to include Requests for
Proposals, within the approved budgets, policies and procedures established by
the Village Board of Trustees and approve emergency purchases not to exceed
$10,000.
(I)   Keep a current inventory of all real and personal property of the
Village.
(J)   Participate with Village Board of Trustees in the development and
establishment of short- and long-range goals and objectives.
(K)   Represent the Village in its dealings with other governmental agencies
and officials, businesses, not-for-profit organizations, residents, and the
general public as necessary.
(L)   Oversee the preparation of grant and/or loan applications on behalf of
the Village and administer such grant and/or loan funds that may be required.
(M)   The Village Administrator shall perform such other duties as may be
required by the Board of Trustees consistent with state statutes and the
ordinances of the Village.
(N)   Hold such other appointive offices as may be consistent with law,
including but not limited to the position of FOIA Officer, as the Village
President and Board of Trustees may determine, and to faithfully and honestly
discharge the duties and powers associated with such offices. (Ord. 1355, 11-
20-2019)
1-7-54: REMOVAL OF VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR:
The Village Administrator may be removed at the direction and decision of the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees at any
time, in accordance with the law. (Ord. 1355, 11-20-2019)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Residency Requirements
1-7A-2: Appointment And Term Of Office
1-7A-3: Powers And Duties
1-7A-4: Deputy Village Clerk
1-7A-5: Compensation
1-7A-1: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
As provided by the Illinois municipal code, the Village Clerk is not required
to be a resident of the Village. (Ord. 1196, 12-20-2010)
1-7A-2: APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF OFFICE:
The Village Clerk is appointed by the Village President with the concurrence of
the Village Board. The Deputy Village Clerk is appointed by the Village Clerk
subject to the concurrence of the Village President and Board of Trustees. The
terms of office for the Village Clerk and Deputy Village Clerk shall be one
year (coinciding with the fiscal year) beginning on May 1 of every year and
ending on the following April 30; except, that in the case of appointment after
May 1, the term shall be for a partial year ending on May 1 following the date
of appointment. (Ord. 836, 2-28-2000)
1-7A-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Attend Meetings: The Village Clerk shall attend meetings of the Board
of Trustees and be responsible for the keeping of a full record of their
proceedings (minutes) and the accuracy of the record. The Village Clerk may be
asked to attend other governmental meetings as deemed appropriate by the
Village President. (Ord. 836, 2-28-2000)
   B.   Record Of Proceedings:
      1.   The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the corporate
authorities and prepare the draft record of the proceedings (minutes).
      2.   The minutes of each meeting of the corporate authorities shall be
arranged as near as may be appropriate in chronological sequence.
      3.   The minutes shall contain:
         a.   An accurate record of the transaction of public business and
official actions, including all motions, decisions or other actions of the
corporate authorities.
         b.   A summary of reports of committees, commissions or Village
officers as presented at the meeting.
         c.   Informational data needed or desirable to understand the actions
of the corporate authorities.
         d.   A reasonable summarization of comments from the audience.
         e.   A reasonable summarization of any member of the corporate
authorities, and of any other reports, data or memoranda presented to the
meeting, at the specific request of the corporate authorities.
      4.   At the direction of the corporate authorities, the proceedings shall
be recorded by tape recorder or other appropriate means. Any person is
permitted to tape record or videotape any meeting open to the public pursuant
to state law.
      5.   Subject to the matters otherwise provided in this article, the role
of the Village Clerk in preparation of minutes is to record the proceedings of
the Board and to prepare draft and final minutes.
      6.   The draft minutes will be presented for approval at the next meeting
of the corporate authorities, where possible. The Village President and
Attorney may present to the corporate authorities suggested corrections and/or
clarification of the draft minutes, and the same shall be incorporated in the
minutes without a specific motion being required. Any Trustee desiring to
correct or clarify the draft minutes (including correction and/or clarification
of matters suggested by the Village Attorney) shall make a motion stating the
matters to be corrected or clarified, and such motion will be voted upon if
seconded. The minutes, as presented, or as corrected and clarified, will be
subject to approval by motion approved by a majority of the Trustees present.
      7.   After the corporate authorities have approved the minutes, they may
be signed by both the Village Clerk and President; however, failure of either
or both to sign the minutes will not affect the validity of such minutes once
approved, and the corporate authorities may designate one of their members to
sign any particular minutes if both the President and Clerk fail to do so.
      8.   The minutes shall be made available for public inspection within
seven (7) days after being approved or accepted by the corporate authorities as
the official minutes of their proceedings. (Ord. 836, 2-28-2000; amd. 2004
Code)
   C.   Records Required: In addition to the record of ordinances, resolutions
and other records which the Village Clerk is required by statute to keep, the
Village Clerk shall keep a register of all licenses and permits issued and the
payment thereon, and such other records as may be required by the Board of
Trustees.
   D.   Special Projects: The Village Clerk may be asked to work on special
projects for the Village President as needed.
   E.   Authenticate Documents: The Village Clerk shall sign and authenticate
documents in accordance with state law.
   F.   Custodian: The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents
belonging to the Village which are not assigned to the custody of some other
officer. (Ord. 836, 2-28-2000)
   G.   Publication Of Ordinances: The Village Clerk shall publish all
ordinances passed by the corporate authorities imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation, in pamphlet form,
whether or not each such ordinance contains language authorizing such
publication in pamphlet form.
   H.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the
Village Clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required
by statute or ordinance or as otherwise specified by the Village President and
Board of Trustees. The duties of the Village Clerk shall include general office
coordination such as:
      1.   Sign, seal and attest all contracts of the Village and all licenses,
permits and such other documents as shall require this formality.
      2.   Publication of ordinances passed by the corporate authorities
requiring publication.
      3.   Assist Village residents as needed.
      4.   Handle incoming calls and general office duties.
      5.   Assist Administrative Assistant, as necessary.
      6.   With the Administrative Assistant, prepare and distribute agenda
packets for Board meetings.
      7.   Prepare various resolutions and ordinances.
      8.   Help maintain and update Village mailing list on the computer.
      9.   Help maintain and update building records on the computer.
      10.   Prepare agenda packets and distribute same for Plan Commission,
Zoning Board of Appeals and Environmental and Health Commission, as well as
other commissions as mutually agreed.
      11.   Serve as secretary (with additional compensation) for Plan
Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals and Environmental and Health Commission, as
well as other commissions as mutually agreed.
      12.   Make arrangements for all meetings and hearings, including
notification to media and posting and publication of notices.
      13.   Prepare election materials for municipal elections.
      14.   Take over duties to maintain daily functions and needs of the
Village office when the Administrative Assistant is not available due to
vacation, illness, etc. (Ord. 836, 2-28-2000; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-
2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
1-7A-4: DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Duties And Responsibilities: In the absence of the Village Clerk, the
Deputy Village Clerk shall attend meetings of the corporate authorities and
prepare the draft record of the proceedings, and perform any and all duties and
responsibilities of the Village Clerk as requested and specified by the Village
President and Board of Trustees. (2004 Code)
   B.   Sealing And Attesting Documents: If the Village Clerk is absent from
the office, the Deputy Village Clerk shall sign, seal and attest all contracts
of the Village and all licenses, permits and such other documents as shall
require this formality.
   C.   Publication Of Ordinances: If the Village Clerk is absent from the
office, the Deputy Village Clerk shall and is hereby authorized to publish all
ordinances hereafter passed by the corporate authorities requiring publication.
   D.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the
Deputy Village Clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be
required by statute or ordinance or as otherwise specified by the Village
President and Board of Trustees. The duties of the Deputy Village Clerk shall
include general office coordination such as:
      1.   Assist Village residents as needed.
      2.   Handle incoming calls and general office duties.
      3.   Assist Administrative Assistant, as necessary.
      4.   With the Administrative Assistant, prepare and distribute agenda
packets for Board meetings.
      5.   Process vehicle sticker applications.
      6.   Prepare agenda packets and distribute same for Plan Commission,
Zoning Board of Appeals, Environmental and Health Commission, as well as other
commissions as mutually agreed.
      7.   Serve as secretary (with additional compensation) for Plan
Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals and Environmental and Health Commission, as
well as other commissions as mutually agreed.
      8.   Take over duties to maintain daily functions and needs of the
Village office when the Administrative Assistant is not available due to
vacation, illness, etc. (Ord. 836, 2-28-2000; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-
2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
1-7A-5: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk shall receive such compensation as
determined by the President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   Deputy Village Clerk: The Deputy Village Clerk shall receive such
compensation as determined by the President and Board of Trustees as
commensurate with duties and responsibilities. (Ord. 836, 2-28-2000)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Office Established; Appointment; Term
1-7B-2: Bond
1-7B-3: Powers And Duties
1-7B-4: Warrants And Checks
1-7B-5: Compensation
1-7B-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
There is established the Office of Village Treasurer, an administrative office
of the Village. The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the President with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village Treasurer shall
hold office for a term of one year, reviewed and subject to reappointment
annually, and until a successor has been appointed and qualified. (Ord. 1330,
7-25-2018)
1-7B-2: BOND:
The Village Treasurer shall give a surety bond, before entering upon the duties
of his office, in the sum required by the Board of Trustees, but such amount
shall not be less than that required by State Statute. This bond shall be
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties as the Treasurer and
shall be conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss by reason of any
neglect of duty or any improper act of the Treasurer. (1977 Code § 2-5-5; amd.
2004 Code)
1-7B-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Village Treasurer shall perform such lawful powers and
duties as may be prescribed for him by statute or ordinance or otherwise by the
Corporate Authorities, as well as provided in this article. He shall pay out
money only on vouchers, bills or orders properly approved by the Village Board
or approved by another Village official within the authority of such official.
(1977 Code §
2-5-3; amd. Ord. 911, 12-16-2002; 2004 Code)
   B.   Custody Of Funds: The Village Treasurer shall deposit the Village funds
in such depositories as may be selected by the Corporate Authorities from time
to time as provided by law, and he shall keep the deposit of the Village funds
separate and distinct from his own funds, and shall not make private or
personal use of any Village funds. (1977 Code § 2-5-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Monthly Reports: The Village Treasurer shall render an account under
oath to the Board of Trustees on a monthly basis. (1977 Code § 2-5-6; amd. 2004
Code)
1-7B-4: WARRANTS AND CHECKS:
   A.   Warrants:
      1.   Definition: "Warrants" are authorizations to the Village Treasurer
to disburse Village funds.
      2.   Signatures Required; Contents: No funds shall be disbursed unless
the Treasurer first receives a warrant signed by the Village President and
countersigned by the Village Clerk, except petty cash as authorized by the
Board of Trustees. Each warrant shall state the particular fund or
appropriation to which the same is chargeable, and the person to whom payable.
(1977 Code § 2-5-7)
   B.   Checks:
      1.   The Treasurer is authorized to issue checks up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) with the Treasurer's signature only.
      2.   Checks covering expenditures over one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
will require the signatures of the Treasurer and any one of the Village
President, Village Clerk, or Village Trustee appointed by the Village
President.
      3.   The Village President has authority to direct the issuance of checks
up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for purchases and/or cash.
(Ord. 1057, 5-23-2005)
1-7B-5: COMPENSATION:
The Village Treasurer shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by the
President and Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-5-8; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Office Established; Appointment; Term
1-7C-2: Bond
1-7C-3: Duties
1-7C-4: Compensation
1-7C-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
There is established the office of Village Collector, an administrative office
of the Village. The Village Collector shall be appointed by the President with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees and shall hold office for a
term of one year and until a successor has been appointed and qualified. (1977
Code §§ 2-5A-1, 2-5A-2; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7C-2: BOND:
The Village Collector shall give a five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) surety bond
before entering upon the duties of the office, or such greater amount as
required by the Board of Trustees or by state statute. This bond shall be
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the Collector's duties as the
collector, and shall be conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss by
reason of any neglect of duty or any act of the Collector. (1977 Code § 2-5A-4;
amd. 2004 Code)
1-7C-3: DUTIES:
The Village Collector shall perform such lawful duties as may be prescribed by
state statute or ordinance or otherwise by the Board of Trustees. The collector
shall receive all funds due to or delivered to the Village and shall promptly
deliver the same to the Village Treasurer. (1977 Code § 2-5A-3)
1-7C-4: COMPENSATION:
The Village Collector shall receive such compensation, if any, as may be fixed
by the President and Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-5A-5; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE ATTORNEY AND VILLAGE PROSECUTOR
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Position Established; Appointment
1-7D-2: Term And Termination Of Position
1-7D-3: Duties
1-7D-4: Compensation
1-7D-5: Village Prosecutor
1-7D-6: Contract For Special Projects
1-7D-1: POSITION ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT:
There is established the position of Village Attorney, which shall consist of
an attorney or firm of attorneys duly licensed by the state, appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
894, 7-22-2002)
1-7D-2: TERM AND TERMINATION OF POSITION:
The term of office of the Village Attorney shall be July 1 to June 30, reviewed
and subject to reappointment annually. The attorney, or firm, or corporate
authorities may terminate such appointment with thirty (30) days' written
notice. (Ord. 894, 7-22-2002)
1-7D-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Legal Advisor: The Village Attorney shall advise and represent the
Village President and Board of Trustees and other Village officials on all
matters referred to such attorney and shall perform such duties as are provided
by law or ordinance and, in addition thereto, such other duties as from time to
time may be requested by the Village President or the corporate authorities.
   B.   Reports Required: The Village Attorney shall submit project reports on
a regular basis, and shall make such suggestions to the President or corporate
authorities regarding those matters in the areas of responsibility of the
Village Attorney based upon such Village Attorney's best judgment, and in the
best interests of the Village and its residents. (Ord. 894, 7-22-2002)
1-7D-4: COMPENSATION:
The Village Attorney shall receive compensation for hours worked pursuant to a
fixed schedule approved from time to time by the corporate authorities. (Ord.
894, 7-22-2002)
1-7D-5: VILLAGE PROSECUTOR:
The Village Attorney, with the consent of the Village President and Board, may
recommend a Village Prosecutor to assist in prosecutions for Village code and
other alleged violations. If the corporate authorities appoint a Village
Prosecutor in accordance herewith, the duties of such Village Prosecutor shall
be performed under the supervision of the Village Attorney. (Ord. 894, 7-22-
2002)
1-7D-6: CONTRACT FOR SPECIAL PROJECTS:
Nothing in this article or this code shall prohibit the Village from entering
into a contract with any municipal attorney for special projects and legal
work. (Ord. 894, 7-22-2002)
ARTICLE E. BUILDING AND ZONING OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Office Established; Appointment And Term; Termination Of Office
1-7E-2: Powers And Duties
1-7E-3: Deputy Building Officer And Inspector
1-7E-4: Compensation
1-7E-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; TERMINATION OF OFFICE:
There is established the office of Building and Zoning Officer, an
administrative office of the Village. The Building and Zoning Officer shall be
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. The term of office of the Building and Zoning Officer shall be July 1
to June 30, reviewed and subject to reappointment annually. The Building and
Zoning Officer or corporate authorities may terminate such appointment with
thirty (30) days' written notice. (1977 Code § 2-9-1; amd. Ord. 813, 8-23-1999;
2004 Code)
1-7E-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Building and Zoning Officer shall enforce all ordinances
and provisions of this code pertaining to building and zoning in the Village,
including issuance of building permits and inspections of construction as
required. (1977 Code § 2-9-3)
   B.   Reports Required: The Building and Zoning Officer shall inquire into
and report upon any matter pertaining to building and zoning as may be required
by the President and Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-9-4)
1-7E-3: DEPUTY BUILDING OFFICER AND INSPECTOR:
There is hereby created the office of Deputy Building Officer and Inspector, an
administrative office of the Village. The Deputy Building Officer and Inspector
shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. The Deputy Building Officer and Inspector shall have the same term of
office and, subject to the direction of the Building and Zoning Officer, the
same powers and duties as are assigned to the Building and Zoning Officer.
(1977 Code § 2-9-5; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7E-4: COMPENSATION:
The Building and Zoning Officer and Deputy Building Officer and Inspector shall
receive such compensation, if any, as may be fixed by the President and Board
of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-9-6; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE F. FORESTER
SECTION:
1-7F-1: Office Established; Appointment; Term
1-7F-2: Powers And Duties
1-7F-3: Compensation
1-7F-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
There is established the Office of Village Forester, an administrative office
of the Village. The Village Forester shall be appointed by the President with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village Forester shall
hold office for a term of one year, reviewed and subject to reappointment
annually, and until a successor has been appointed and qualified. (Ord. 1330,
7-25-2018)
1-7F-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Forester shall enforce all ordinances and provisions of
this Code pertaining to the control of Dutch elm and oak wilt disease, and any
other provisions of ordinances or this Code pertaining to weeds and trees.
(1977 Code § 2-10-3)
   B.   Reports Required: The Forester shall inquire into and report upon any
matter pertaining to trees as may be required by the Environmental and Health
Commission and/or by the President and Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-10-4;
amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
1-7F-3: COMPENSATION:
The Forester shall receive such compensation, if any, as may be fixed by the
President and Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-10-5; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE G. HEALTH OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7G-1: Office Established; Appointment And Term; Termination Of Office
1-7G-2: Powers And Duties
1-7G-3: Deputy Health Officer
1-7G-4: Compensation
1-7G-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; TERMINATION OF OFFICE:
There is established the office of Village Health Officer, an administrative
office of the Village. The Health Officer shall be appointed by the President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The term of office of the
Village Health Officer shall be July 1 to June 30, reviewed and subject to
reappointment annually. The Health Officer or corporate authorities may
terminate such appointment with thirty (30) days' written notice. (1977 Code §
2-11-1; amd. Ord. 813, 8-23-1999; 2004 Code)
1-7G-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Health Officer shall enforce all ordinances and
provisions of this code containing provisions for the protection of public
health and is hereby authorized and empowered to inspect all buildings, lands,
and places as to their conditions affecting health and sanitation, and whenever
any public nuisance, source of filth or condition prejudicial to the public
health is found to exist, the Health Officer shall have the power and authority
to order the owner or occupant thereof to make such alterations or changes
necessary to correct and remove said nuisance, source of filth or condition
prejudicial to the public health. (1977 Code § 2-11-3)
   B.   Reports Required: The Health Officer shall inquire into and report upon
any matter pertaining to health and sanitation as may be required by the
Environmental and Health Commission and/or the President and Board of Trustees.
(1977 Code § 2-11-4; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-
2007)
1-7G-3: DEPUTY HEALTH OFFICER:
There is established the office of Deputy Health Officer, an administrative
office of the Village. The Deputy Health Officer shall be appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Deputy
Health Officer shall have the same term of office and, subject to the direction
of the Health Officer, the same powers and duties as are assigned to the Health
Officer. (1977 Code § 2-11-5; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7G-4: COMPENSATION:
The Health Officer and Deputy Health Officer shall receive such compensation,
if any, as may be fixed by the President and Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-
11-6; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE H. SUPERVISION OF ROADS
SECTION:
1-7H-1: Village Board Member Responsible For Roads
1-7H-2: Powers And Duties
1-7H-3: Delegation Of Responsibilities
1-7H-1: VILLAGE BOARD MEMBER RESPONSIBLE FOR ROADS:
Effective June 1 of each year, the Village President shall appoint a member of
the Corporate Authorities (himself or a Village Trustee) as the Board Member
Responsible for Roads. (Ord. 1245, 11-20-2013)
1-7H-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Road And Culvert Maintenance: The Board Member Responsible for Roads
shall have charge of carrying out the program of planned maintenance of all
public streets, roads, bridges, culverts and other structures and appurtenances
thereto in the village and regular cleaning, maintenance and inspections of
road conditions and drainage structures. Such Board Member shall develop a
program whereby all culverts within the rights of way of any roads and streets,
or which are appurtenant to drainage for roads or streets, are inspected, and
to the extent necessary, repaired and replaced, on a semiannual basis, to
assure that each culvert in the village is clear of debris or other blockage
and in such state of maintenance and repair as to ensure its functionality;
provided however that nothing in this article shall release any property owner
of such owner's obligations to inspect and clear any culvert on such owner's
property.
   B.   Signs: The Board Member Responsible for Roads shall have charge of
installing road signs required for traffic and/or other reasons and regular
inspections of such signs.
   C.   Activities In Public Ways: The Board Member Responsible for Roads shall
be responsible for the following activities within the rights of way of village
streets:
      1.   Tree and brush removal or trimming and grass cutting.
      2.   Placement of emergency storm and stormwater traffic barricades.
      3.   Street sweeping.
      4.   Removal of dead or injured animals.
      5.   Construction traffic routing and weight limitations.
   D.   Enforcement Duties:
      1.   The Board Member Responsible for Roads shall enforce all ordinances
and provisions of this code relating to public utility service facilities.
      2.   Such Board Member shall enforce all ordinances and provisions of
this code relating to roads, driveways, culverts, culvert installation, and
other such ordinances and provisions of this code relating to roads and public
rights of way. (Ord. 1245, 11-20-2013)
1-7H-3: DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Board Member Responsible for Roads is authorized to delegate the
responsibilities defined in this article to the person, firm, entity or agency
employed by the village from time to time to perform such responsibilities.
(Ord. 1245, 11-20-2013)
ARTICLE I. CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7I-1: Office Established; Appointment; Term And Termination Of Office
1-7I-2: Powers And Duties
1-7I-3: Compensation
1-7I-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; TERM AND TERMINATION OF OFFICE:
There is established the office of Code Enforcement Officer, an administrative
office of the Village. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The term of
office of the Code Enforcement Officer shall be July 1 to June 30, reviewed and
subject to reappointment annually. The Code Enforcement Officer or corporate
authorities may terminate such appointment with thirty (30) days' written
notice. (1977 Code §§ 2-15-1, 2-15-2; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7I-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Code Enforcement Officer shall have authority to enforce
all provisions of this code pertaining to on view violations other than
violations of the provisions of title 3, title 6 and title 7 of this code;
provided, however, the Code Enforcement Officer shall have authority to enforce
any provisions of this code if authorized to do so by the Village President,
including, but not limited to, those excluded provisions set forth above. The
Code Enforcement Officer shall likewise have authority to advise persons of
such existing on view violations and send out notices requesting abatement of
such violations and shall furthermore have authority to initiate legal action
by the issuance of a citation and notice to appear where, in his opinion, it is
necessary to do so. (1977 Code § 2-15-3)
   B.   Reports Required: The Code Enforcement Officer shall inquire into and
report upon any matter pertaining to violations of this code as may be
requested by the President and Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 2-15-4)
1-7I-3: COMPENSATION:
The Code Enforcement Officer shall receive such compensation, if any, as may be
fixed by the President and Board of Trustees from time to time in the annual
appropriation ordinance or by separate ordinance. (1977 Code § 2-15-5; amd.
2004 Code)
ARTICLE J. ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
(Repealed by Ord. 1355, 11-20-2019)
ARTICLE K. VILLAGE ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-7K-1: Position Established; Appointment
1-7K-2: Term Of Office
1-7K-3: Duties
1-7K-4: Compensation
1-7K-5: Contract For Special Projects
1-7K-1: POSITION ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT:
There is established the position of Village Engineer, which shall consist of
an engineer or engineering firm duly licensed by the state, appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
892, 6-24-2002)
1-7K-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the Village Engineer shall be July 1 to June 30, reviewed
and subject to reappointment annually. The engineer or engineering firm or
corporate authorities may terminate such appointment with thirty (30) days'
written notice. (Ord. 892, 6-24-2002)
1-7K-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Engineering Advisor: The Village Engineer shall advise the Village
President and Board of Trustees and other Village officials on all engineering
matters referred to such engineer and shall perform such duties as are provided
by law or ordinance and, in addition thereto, such other duties as from time to
time may be requested by the Village President or the corporate authorities.
   B.   Reports Required: The Village Engineer shall submit project reports on
a regular basis, and shall make such suggestions to the President or corporate
authorities regarding those matters in the areas of responsibility of the
Village Engineer based upon the Village Engineer's best judgment and in the
best interests of the Village and its residents. (Ord. 892, 6-24-2002)
   C.   Appoint Deputy Engineers: The Village Engineer, with the advice and
consent of the Village President and Board of Trustees, may appoint one or more
Deputy Village Engineers from the same engineering firm, to perform duties as
needed. (Ord. 892, 6-24-2002; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7K-4: COMPENSATION:
The Village Engineer shall receive compensation for hours worked pursuant to
fixed schedule approved from time to time by the corporate authorities. (Ord.
892, 6-24-2002)
1-7K-5: CONTRACT FOR SPECIAL PROJECTS:
Nothing in this chapter or this code shall prohibit the Village from entering
into a contract with a licensed engineer for special projects and engineering
work. (Ord. 892, 6-24-2002)
ARTICLE L. FIRE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-7L-1: Offices Established
1-7L-2: Appointment; Qualifications; Term Of Office
1-7L-3: Powers And Duties
1-7L-4: Compensation
1-7L-1: OFFICES ESTABLISHED:
There are established the offices of Fire Commissioners, administrative
officers of the Village. (Ord. 843, 6-26-2002)
1-7L-2: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
Each Fire Commissioner shall be appointed by the President, subject to
acceptance of the office of Village Fire Commissioner, and shall be the person,
if any, who is a resident of the Village and is a trustee of any fire
protection district of which the Village is a part. Each Fire Commissioner
shall hold office for a term which is concurrent with such person's term as
trustee of the fire protection district. (Ord. 843, 6-26-2002)
1-7L-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Liaison: Each Fire Commissioner shall be the liaison between the
Village of North Barrington and the respective fire protection district.
   B.   Reports Required: Each Fire Commissioner shall report to the Village
Board as to any matters pertaining to fire protection, as such Commissioner
deems appropriate and as may be required by the Village President and Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 843, 6-26-2002)
1-7L-4: COMPENSATION:
Fire Commissioners shall receive no compensation from the Village. (Ord. 843,
6-26-2002)
ARTICLE M. ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION HEARING OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7M-1: Office Established
1-7M-2: Appointment; Qualifications; Term Of Office
1-7M-3: Powers And Duties
1-7M-4: Compensation
1-7M-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the office of Administrative Adjudication Hearing
Officer of the Village. (Ord. 1199, 12-20-2010)
1-7M-2: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the
President, subject to the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees for a
term of one year, effective June 1 of each year. The Administrative
Adjudication Hearing Officer shall have the qualifications and training as
provided by the state statute and title 12, chapter 1 of the Village zoning
regulations. (Ord. 1199, 12-20-2010)
1-7M-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer shall conduct hearings pursuant
to title 12, chapter 1 of the Village zoning regulations and shall have all the
duties and powers as provided in said title 12, chapter 1 of the Village zoning
regulations. (Ord. 1199, 12-20-2010)
1-7M-4: COMPENSATION:
The Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer shall receive such compensation
on an hourly basis for services rendered as fixed from time to time by the
corporate authorities. (Ord. 1199, 12-20-2010)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Finance Committee
1-8-2: Annual Budget
1-8-3: Annual Appropriation And Tax Levy Ordinances
1-8-4: Surety Bonds
1-8-5: Property Development Costs
1-8-6: Purchasing Procedures And Bidding
1-8-7: Road Fee And Deposit Requirements
1-8-8: Indebtedness To The Village
1-8-1: FINANCE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Appointment; Duties: The Village President, with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint a seven (7) person Finance Committee
which shall be responsible for the preparation of a draft of the annual budget,
and shall review and recommend short and long term investment and capital
improvement strategies for the Village.
   B.   Membership; Terms Of Office; Chair: The Finance Committee shall consist
of the Village Treasurer, the Village President and five (5) other persons, at
least two (2) of whom (but not more than 4 of whom) shall be a member of the
Board of Trustees. The term of Office of the Village President on the committee
coincides with that officer's term as President; the term of Office of the
Village Treasurer on the committee coincides with that officer's term as
Village Treasurer; and the terms of office of other members of the committee
shall be one year from the date of their appointment and acceptance of the
position. One of the members of the committee shall be appointed by the Village
President as Chair.
   C.   Meetings: The Finance Committee shall meet at least two (2) times
during the fiscal year, with appropriate notice given to all members of the
committee and notice in compliance with the Open Meetings Act of the State.
(Ord. 1346, 6-26-2019)
1-8-2: ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   Preparation: The Finance Committee shall compile information from each
of the departments of the Village containing estimates of revenues, together
with the recommended expenditures for payroll, public improvements,
maintenance, and other matters and shall make a recommendation to the Village
Board.
   B.   Approval: The final budget shall be approved by the Village Board no
later than the April Board meeting, to be effective the following fiscal year.
   C.   Village Financial Plan: The budget prepared by the Finance Committee
and approved by the Village Board shall be the financial plan for conducting
affairs of the Village for the fiscal year. (Ord. 911, 12-26-2002)
1-8-3: ANNUAL APPROPRIATION AND TAX LEVY ORDINANCES:
The annual Tax Appropriation Ordinance and annual Tax Levy Ordinance shall
contain such detail and information and be subject to adoption and filing with
appropriate officials as required from time to time by State Statutes. (Ord.
911, 12-26-2002)
1-8-4: SURETY BONDS:
   A.   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the Village is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the
issuance of a license or permit, or for the exercise of any special privilege,
the surety on such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in the State as a surety company, in the absence of specific provision
to the contrary by ordinance. The Corporate Authorities have the right to
reject a proposed surety if they determine the financial rating of the proposed
surety is not adequate. (1977 Code § 1-1-11; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Whenever in its opinion additional sureties or an additional surety may
be needed on any bond to indemnify the Village against loss or liability
because of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties or for any other
reason, the Village may order a new surety for such bond. If such new surety or
sureties are not procured within ten (10) days from the time such order is
transmitted to the principal on the bond, or his assignee, the Board may, at
its option, declare the bond to be void, and thereupon such principal or
assignee shall be deemed to have surrendered the privilege or position as
condition of which the bond was required. (1977 Code § 1-1-11)
1-8-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT COSTS:
   A.   Findings:
      1.   Certain costs are necessarily incurred by the Village in processing
petitions for annexation, petitions for rezoning, planned unit developments,
subdivisions, site plans and other land use matters (the development petition),
including, but not limited to, staff costs, fees of planning consultants,
engineers, attorneys, building officials and other consultants, as well as out
of pocket costs of the Village such as mailing expenses, photocopying, toll
telephone charges, recording and other out of pocket costs (collectively
"development costs"); and
      2.   The Village Board has determined that development costs should be
borne by the person filing a development petition ("petitioner") rather than
the taxpayers of the Village.
   B.   Trust And Agency Account: The Village heretofore established a trust
and agency account for the purpose of accounting for development costs and
reimbursement for such costs with subaccounts for each separate petitioner.
Such trust and agency account shall be subject to audit as in the case of all
other accounts and funds of the Village but shall not be part of the
appropriation and budget process of the Village.
   C.   Deposits:
      1.   Initial Deposit: Whenever the Village is asked to consider a
development petition, the Village President, or the designee of the President,
shall, prior to the time when the Village incurs any expense for staff or
consultants, establish the amount of the petitioner's initial deposit in the
trust and agency account of the Village (the "initial deposit"). Before any
expenses for consultants' and out of pocket costs are incurred by the Village,
the petitioner shall pay to the Village Treasurer the amount of such initial
deposit.
      2.   Second And Subsequent Deposits: Prior to the time when the accrued
fees and costs equal the amount of said initial deposit, the Village President,
or the designee of the President, shall establish the amount, if any, of a
second deposit to the trust and agency account (the "second deposit").
Likewise, prior to the time when the accrued fees and costs equal the amount of
said second deposit (and any subsequent deposits), the Village President, or
the designee of the President, shall establish the amount of subsequent
deposits (the "subsequent deposits") to the trust and agency account.
      3.   Failure To Make Deposits: In the event that the petitioner fails to
promptly make the required payments of the initial deposit, the second deposit
or any subsequent deposit, the Village may advise all consultants to the
Village to cease performing any services and incurring any costs relative to
the development petition, and the Village may postpone or cancel any scheduled
hearings, meetings or consideration of the pending development petition.
   D.   Invoices: Copies of all invoices submitted to the Village by its
consultants shall be provided to the petitioner. Any questions as to such
invoices must be raised by the petitioner within fourteen (14) days after
transmittal of the invoices to the petitioner, and in the absence of such
questions within such time, the invoices shall be conclusively deemed
acceptable to the petitioner.
   E.   Refunds: Whenever it appears that there will not be further development
costs incurred relative to a petitioner, the balance in such petitioner's trust
and agency account will be refunded to the petitioner.
   F.   Copy Of Provisions To Petitioner: At the time that the amount of
initial deposit is established, the petitioner shall be provided with a copy of
this section and shall deliver to the Village the following statement signed by
the petitioner:
            To: Village of North Barrington
The undersigned, having filed or expecting to file, a development petition with
the Village of North Barrington, certify that I have received a copy of Village
of North Barrington code section
1-8-5, have read and understand the same and agree to make the deposits as
provided in said code section, including the initial deposit of $          .
   Dated               , 200   
                                                                                                 
Petitioner
   (Ord. 785, 11-23-1998)
1-8-6: PURCHASING PROCEDURES AND BIDDING:
A. Services Not Requiring Bids: All expenditures or commitments of expenditures
(other than regular Village consultant's fees) for services not to exceed ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall be approved by the corporate authorities.
B. Bids Required; Procedures:
1. Bids Required: No purchase of any article or commodity or any public works
expected to cost more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall be made,
incurred or committed to unless bids or quotations are solicited, except in
case of emergency or with specific approval of the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
895, 7-22-2002; amd. 2004 Code)
2. Soliciting Bids: Unless bids have been sought from two (2) or more vendors
of such article or commodity, or provider of such public works, bids or
quotations will be solicited in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Village of North Barrington and in the Village of Barrington.
3. Bidding Specifications: Specifications for such bids or quotations shall be
available to all prospective bidders, and at least ten (10) days shall elapse
between the time of soliciting or advertising for bids or quotations and the
time specified for submitting bids to the Village unless the Board of Trustees
directs otherwise. (Ord. 895, 7-22-2002)
1-8-7: ROAD FEE AND DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
A. Fee And Deposit Required; Exemption: At the time of an issuance of a
building permit or health and sanitation permit 1 , the applicant shall deposit
with the Village one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) cash, five
hundred dollars ($500.00) of which shall be a nonrefundable road fee, and the
balance of which shall serve as a cash deposit to be utilized to reimburse the
Village in the event of damage to roads and public ways or in the event of
interference with drainage by reason of the construction in violation of any
provisions of this code; provided, however, that the Building and Zoning
Officer, at his discretion, may waive or reduce said deposit. The road fee and
deposit shall not be required if the property for which a building permit or
health and sanitation permit is being applied is in a subdivision where the
roads are private and not dedicated to the public. (1977 Code §
9-2-1; amd. 2004 Code)
B. Refund Of Deposit: Upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy, or
completion of construction activity, if the Superintendent of Roads finds that
there is no uncorrected damage to roads and public ways and no such
interference with drainage, then said cash deposit, less the five hundred
dollar ($500.00) road fee, shall be refunded to the applicant, but if there
shall be uncorrected damage or interference with drainage, the Village may
correct such damage or interference and utilize as much of said cash deposit
for said purposes as may be required, refunding the balance, if any, to the
applicant. (1977 Code §
9-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
C. Forfeiture Of Fee:
1. Failure of the applicant to comply with any provisions of this code shall
result in forfeiture of any such cash fee held by the Village. (1977 Code §
9-2-3; amd. 2004 Code)
2. If any such cash fee is unclaimed for two (2) years, the same may be
forfeited to the Village by resolution adopted by the Village Board after
written notice to the applicant at the last address in the Village files at
least ten (10) days before such forfeiture. (1977 Code §
9-2-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-5-3D of this code, performance bond requirements for
  private sewage disposal systems.
1-8-8: INDEBTEDNESS TO THE VILLAGE:
Whenever any amount is due to the Village from any individual, corporation,
partnership, company, firm, limited liability company, trust or other entity
which has remained unpaid for more than sixty (60) days, there will be added to
the amount due interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum which
shall begin to accrue on the date sixty (60) days after the indebtedness is
due. (Ord. 1128, 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE SEAL
SECTION:
1-9-1: Description
1-9-2: Custody Of Seal
1-9-1: DESCRIPTION:
The corporate seal of the Village shall be a circular disc with the words
"Village of North Barrington, Lake County, Illinois" on the perimeter, and the
word "Seal" in the center thereof. (1977 Code § 2-7-1)
1-9-2: CUSTODY OF SEAL:
The seal shall remain in the custody and control of the Village Clerk, to be
used as required by law and the provisions of this code. (1977 Code § 2-7-2)
CHAPTER 10
LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Scope; Application Of Provisions
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Notice Requirements
1-10-4: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
1-10-5: Application Of Tax Payments
1-10-6: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-10-7: Audit Procedure
1-10-8: Appeals
1-10-9: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
1-10-10: Installment Contracts
1-10-11: Statute Of Limitations
1-10-12: Voluntary Disclosure
1-10-13: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
1-10-14: Review Of Liens
1-10-1: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the Village
procedures in connection with all of the Village locally imposed and
administered taxes, if any. (Ord. 859, 12-19-2000; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the Village tax
code or ordinance provisions. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be
controlling. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act 1 ".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The Village President and Board of Trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The Village Treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the Village
that is collected or administered by the Village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code 2  or fees collected by the Village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the Village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the Village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
Village. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
2 1. 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.
1-10-3: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing, sent not less than fourteen (14) calendar days prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the
local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known addresses; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-4: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
Village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the Village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the Village with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-5: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-6: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The Village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be two (2) or less years after the end of the calendar
year in which payment in error was made. The Village shall not grant a credit
or refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties to a
person who has not paid the amounts directly to the Village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the Village.
      2.   Within fourteen (14) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate per annum as published in the money
rates section of the Wall Street Journal on the business date twenty eight (28)
days before the refund is to be mailed, based on a year of three hundred sixty
five (365) days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the
overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-7: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this section.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer which
shall be within thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and
during normal business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than fourteen (14) days nor
more than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the
taxpayer and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time.
In the event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in
question, the taxpayer may request another date, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which have given rise or may have
given rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be
kept in the English language and shall be subject to and available for
inspection by the Village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the Village. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the Village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the Village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within twenty eight (28) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal. No continuances
shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to
protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds
for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not exceed twenty eight (28)
days.
      2.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      3.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-9: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The Village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be
eighteen percent (18%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five
(365) days and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the Village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling Village code provision.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 859, 12-
18-2000)
1-10-10: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The Village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is fourteen (14) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-11: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The Village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
Village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed. (Ord.
859, 12-18-2000)
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000; amd. 2004 Code)
1-10-12: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-13: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk's office. (Ord. 859, 12-18-2000)
1-10-14: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the Village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
859, 12-18-2000)
CHAPTER 11
ADDRESSING PUBLIC OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Persons Permitted An Opportunity To Address Public Officials
1-11-2: Form
1-11-3: Time Limit For Individual Speakers
1-11-4: Total Aggregate Time Allotted
1-11-1: PERSONS PERMITTED AN OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
Any person shall be permitted an opportunity to speak at any regular or special
meeting of the corporate authorities and any meeting of the Plan Commission,
Zoning Board of Appeals or any other committee or commission of the Village.
(Ord. 1206, 6-29-2011)
1-11-2: FORM:
Any person wishing to address the corporate authorities shall complete and
present a form which provides the name and address of the person wishing to
speak (to assist the Village Clerk in maintaining proper records) and such
other information as specified by the Village President. (Ord. 1206, 6-29-2011)
1-11-3: TIME LIMIT FOR INDIVIDUAL SPEAKERS:
Remarks of any person speaking shall be limited to five (5) minutes. (Ord.
1206, 6-29-2011)
1-11-4: TOTAL AGGREGATE TIME ALLOTTED:
The total time allotted for addressing the corporate authorities shall be
thirty (30) minutes at any meeting. (Ord. 1206, 6-29-2011)
CHAPTER 12
IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Statement Of Purpose
1-12-2: Prohibitions
1-12-3: Requirement To Redact Social Security Numbers
1-12-4: Employee Access To Social Security Numbers
1-12-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   Whenever any individual is requested to provide any department or
office of the Village with a social security number, the Village, through its
appropriate officials and/or employees, shall provide that individual with a
copy of the statement of purpose approved from time to time by the Village
Board of Trustees.
   B.   The Village shall also provide a copy of such statement of purpose to
any other person upon request.
   C.   The statement of purpose shall identify the purpose or purposes for
which the Village is collecting, maintaining and/or using social security
numbers. (Ord. 1207, 6-27-2011)
1-12-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   The Village shall not under any circumstances:
      1.   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual's
social security number. For purposes of this section, the terms "publicly post"
or "publicly display" shall mean to intentionally communicate or otherwise
intentionally make available to the general public.
      2.   Print an individual's social security number on any card required
for the individual to access products or services provided by the person or
entity.
      3.   Require an individual to transmit a social security number over the
internet, unless the connection is secure or the social security number is
encrypted.
      4.   Print an individual's social security number on any materials that
are mailed to the individual, through the U.S. postal service, any private mail
service, electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state or
federal law requires the social security number to be on the document to be
mailed. Social security numbers may be included in applications and forms sent
by mail, including, but not limited to, any material mailed in connection with
the administration of the unemployment insurance act, any material mailed in
connection with any tax administered by the Department of Revenue, and
documents sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish,
amend, or terminate an account, contract, or policy or to confirm the accuracy
of the social security number. A social security number that is permissibly
mailed will not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or other mailer
that does not require an envelope or be visible on an envelope without the
envelope having been opened.
   B.   Except as described in subsection C of this section, the Village shall
not perform any of the following acts:
      1.   Collect, use, or disclose a social security number from an
individual, unless:
         a.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or
regulations, or the collection, use, or disclosure of the social security
number is otherwise necessary for the performance of the Village's duties and
responsibilities;
         b.   The need and purpose for the social security number is documented
before collection of the social security number; and
         c.   The social security number collected is relevant to the
documented need and purpose.
      2.   Require an individual to use his or her social security number to
access an internet website.
      3.   Use the social security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
      4.   Embed or encode a social security number in or on any card or
document, including, but not limited to, any bar code, chip, magnetic strip,
RFID technology or other technology in place of removing the social security
number as required by the Illinois identity protection act.
   C.   The prohibitions set out in subsection B of this section shall not
apply in the following circumstances:
      1.   The disclosure of social security numbers to agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors of a governmental entity or disclosure by a
governmental entity to another governmental entity or its agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors if disclosure is necessary in order for the
entity to perform its duties and responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a
contractor or subcontractor prior to such disclosure, the governmental entity
must first receive from the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the
contractor's or subcontractor's policy that sets forth how the requirements
imposed under the applicable statute on a governmental entity to protect an
individual's social security number will be achieved.
      2.   The disclosure of social security numbers pursuant to a court order,
warrant, or subpoena.
      3.   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers in
order to ensure the safety of: state and local government employees; persons
committed to correctional facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement
facilities or retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in
or visiting a state or local government agency facility.
      4.   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers for
internal verification or administrative purposes.
      5.   The disclosure of social security numbers by a state agency to any
entity for the collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or
to a governmental agency to assist with an investigation or the prevention of
fraud.
      6.   The collection or use of social security numbers to investigate or
prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal fair credit
reporting act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under
the federal Gramm Leach Bliley act, or to locate a missing person, a lost
relative, or a person who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an
unclaimed property benefit. (Ord. 1207, 6-27-2011)
1-12-3: REQUIREMENT TO REDACT SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS:
   A.   The Village shall comply with the provisions of any other state law
with respect to allowing the public inspection and copying of information or
documents otherwise containing all or any portion of an individual's social
security number.
   B.   The Village shall redact any social security number from the
information or documents to be inspected before allowing the public inspection
or copying of the information or documents.
   C.   The Village shall take steps to make any social security number
provided to the Village easily redactable from any such documents.
   D.   For purposes of these regulations, "redact" means to alter or truncate
the applicable data so that no more than five (5) sequential digits of a social
security number are accessible as part of personal information. (Ord. 1207, 6-
27-2011)
1-12-4: EMPLOYEE ACCESS TO SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS:
   A.   Only officials and employees who are required to use or handle
information or documents that contain social security numbers will have access
to such.
   B.   All officials and employees who shall have access to social security
numbers shall be trained to protect the confidentiality of social security
numbers in accordance with the act, including receiving a copy of this chapter.
(Ord. 1207, 6-27-2011)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLAN COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Established
2-1-2: Members And Alternates
2-1-3: Term Of Office
2-1-4: Resignations; Vacancies
2-1-5: Officers And Procedures
2-1-6: Meetings
2-1-7: Quorum; Voting
2-1-8: Powers And Duties
2-1-9: Compensation
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 7 of this code for general requirements.
2-1-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED 1 :
There is established a Plan Commission for the Village as provided by statute.
(1977 Code §
3-2-1)
 
Notes
1 2. See section 1-7-2 of this code for residency requirements.
2-1-2: MEMBERS AND ALTERNATES:
The Commission shall consist of a chair and six (6) regular members and two (2)
alternate members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President, with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. Alternate members may attend and
participate in all hearings and meetings of the Plan Commission but may make or
second motions and vote only when sitting on the Plan Commission in the place
of an absent regular member. If only one regular member of the Plan Commission
is absent at a meeting of the Plan Commission and both alternate members are
present, then the alternate member with the greater tenure shall serve in the
place of the absent regular member at such meeting. (Ord. 1108, 10-25-2006)
2-1-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
Each appointed member or alternate member of the Plan Commission shall serve
for a term of three (3) years, or until his successor is appointed and
qualified, but terms shall be staggered in order that not more than three (3)
members or alternate members shall be appointed or reappointed each year. (1977
Code §
3-2-3)
2-1-4: RESIGNATIONS; VACANCIES:
The Board of Trustees may accept the resignation of any member or alternate
member of the Commission desiring to resign, and upon such acceptance, the
office shall be considered vacant. Vacancies occurring shall be filled by
appointment by the President with the consent of the Board of Trustees for the
unexpired term only. A vacancy occurs upon death, removal from the Village,
resignation, or by action of the Board of Trustees for cause 1 . (1977 Code §
3-2-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-7-10 of this code.
2-1-5: OFFICERS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Officers: The President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, shall designate the chair and vice chair. The President, with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, also may appoint a secretary who
need not be a member of the Commission. (1977 Code §
3-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Rules Of Procedure: The Plan Commission may adopt rules regulating the
procedure of all meetings of the Plan Commission. Such rules shall be filed in
the office of the Village Clerk and may be amended at any meetings, such rules
to be effective upon filing in the office of the Village Clerk. (1977 Code §
3-2-8)
2-1-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The Plan Commission shall meet on a monthly basis
with meetings to be scheduled to occur prior to the meeting of the Village
Board.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Village
President, the chair, or by two (2) members of the Commission. (1977 Code §
3-2-6; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the Plan Commission shall be open to the
public unless otherwise excepted by law and in all respects shall comply with
state statutes. (2004 Code)
2-1-7: QUORUM; VOTING:
Four (4) members or alternate members of the Plan Commission shall constitute a
quorum, but no final action shall be taken on any measure before it except with
the concurrence of three (3) members or alternate members. The chair shall vote
with the other members of the Commission. (1977 Code §
3-2-5)
2-1-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Plan Commission shall have power:
   A.   To prepare and to recommend to the Village Board a comprehensive plan
of public improvements looking to the present and future development of the
Village, and to provide reasonable requirements with reference to streets,
alleys, public grounds and other improvements pursuant to law in unsubdivided
lands within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside and
distant not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate limits
of the Village, insofar as the same are not included in any city, Village or
incorporated town. After its adoption by the Village Board, this shall be known
as the official comprehensive plan.
   B.   To recommend from time to time changes in the official comprehensive
plan.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the Village board from time to time plans
for specific improvements in pursuance of such official comprehensive plan.
   D.   To aid the Village officials charged with the direction of projects for
improvements embraced within the official comprehensive plan, to further these
projects, and generally, to promote the objectives of the official
comprehensive plan.
   E.   To exercise such other powers as may be provided by statute or
ordinance or by this code. (1977 Code §
3-2-7)
2-1-9: COMPENSATION:
The members and alternate members of the Plan Commission shall receive such
compensation, if any, as may be fixed by the President and Board of Trustees.
(1977 Code § 3-2-11; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Established; Members; Appointment; Terms
2-2-2: Resignations; Vacancies
2-2-3: Organization
2-2-4: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 7 of this code for general requirements.
2-2-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; TERMS 1 :
There is established a Zoning Board of Appeals for the Village. The Zoning
Board of Appeals shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by
the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. Each member
shall be appointed to serve for a term of five (5) years. Terms shall be
staggered as required by statute, with at least one member appointed each year
and not more than two (2) members appointed for full terms in any one year.
(1977 Code §§
3-3-1,
3-3-2,
3-3-3; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See section 1-7-2 of this code for residency requirements.
2-2-2: RESIGNATIONS; VACANCIES:
The Board of Trustees may accept the resignation of any member of the Zoning
Board of Appeals desiring to resign, and upon such acceptance, the office shall
be considered vacant. Vacancies occurring shall be filled by appointment by the
President with the consent of the Board of Trustees for the unexpired terms
only. A vacancy occurs upon death, removal from the Village, resignation, or by
action of the Board of Trustees for cause 1  pursuant to a public hearing.
(1977 Code §
3-3-4; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. See section
  1-7-10 of this code.
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: The Village President shall designate one of the members of
the Zoning Board of Appeals as chair and one member as vice chair, who shall be
authorized to act in the absence of the chair, both with the consent of the
Board of Trustees. The secretary and other officers, if any, shall be selected
pursuant to law. (1977 Code §
3-3-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the
call of the chair and at such time as the Board may determine.
      2.   All meetings or hearings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
open to the public as required by law and shall comply with state statutes.
      3.   The chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses pursuant to law.
      4.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its meetings and
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The Zoning Board of Appeals may adopt its own rules
of procedure, which shall not conflict with the statutes or with the provisions
of this code or any ordinances of the Village. (1977 Code §
3-3-5; amd. 2004 Code)
2-2-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Appeals: It shall be the duty of the Zoning Board of Appeals to hear
and decide any appeal from any order, decision or interpretation of the
enforcing officer, or any matter referred to it or upon which it is required to
pass under the provisions of this code, the ordinances of the Village, or state
statutes; provided, that a concurring vote of four (4) members shall be
necessary to reverse any decision of the enforcing officer or to recommend a
variation. (1977 Code § 3-3-6; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Records Kept: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. Every rule, regulation, amendment or
repeal thereof and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filed immediately in the office of the Village
Clerk and shall be a public record. (1977 Code §
3-3-5; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
SECTION:
2-3-1: Agency Established
2-3-1: AGENCY ESTABLISHED:
There is established the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency of the Village
pursuant to exhibit A attached to ordinance 896 on file in the office of the
Village Clerk for public use and inspection. Said exhibit A shall be included
within this code by this reference. (Ord. 896, 7-22-2002; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-4-1: Commission Created; Members; Appointment
2-4-2: Terms Of Office
2-4-3: Resignations; Vacancies
2-4-4: Meetings
2-4-5: Powers And Duties
2-4-6: Compensation
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 7 of this Code for general requirements.
2-4-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT:
There is established a Commission on Parks and Recreation for the Village. The
commission shall consist of seven (7) members including the Chair. The Chair
and the members shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. (1977 Code §§
3-5-1,
3-5-2; amd. 2004 Code)
2-4-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
Each appointed member shall serve for a term of one year, reviewed and subject
to reappointment annually, or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 1330, 7-25-2018)
2-4-3: RESIGNATIONS; VACANCIES:
The Board of Trustees may accept the resignation of any member of the
commission desiring to resign, and upon such acceptance, the office shall be
considered vacant. Vacancies occurring shall be filled by the appointment by
the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees for
the remainder of the unexpired term. A vacancy automatically occurs by death,
removal from the Village, resignation or by action of the Board of Trustees for
due cause 1 . (1977 Code §
3-5-4; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  1-7-10 of this Code.
2-4-4: MEETINGS:
The Parks and Recreation Commission shall meet at the call of the Chair or any
two (2) members or as requested by the President and Board of Trustees.
However, the commission shall meet at least quarterly during a calendar year.
All meetings shall be open to the public and shall comply with State Statutes,
and written records shall be kept by the commission. (1977 Code §
3-5-6; amd. 2004 Code)
2-4-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Parks and Recreation Commission is hereby authorized and empowered to:
   A.   Research needs and wants of the Village residents for park/recreation
facilities and programs;
   B.   Provide to the Board of Trustees recommendations for programs;
   C.   Provide to the Board of Trustees recommendations for improvement
projects;
   D.   Provide to the Board of Trustees recommendations for park/recreation
facilities needs, goals and implementation schedules;
   E.   Prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees comprehensive plans for
improvements programs and facilities; and
   F.   Implement recommendations approved by the Board of Trustees. (1977 Code
§
3-5-5)
2-4-6: COMPENSATION:
The members of the Parks and Recreation Commission shall receive such
compensation, if any, as may be fixed by the President and Board of Trustees.
(1977 Code §
3-5-7; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-5-1: Established; Members
2-5-2: Meetings
2-5-3: Powers And Duties
2-5-4: Reports And Records
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 7 of this Code for general requirements.
2-5-1: ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS:
   A.   Establishment: There is hereby created an Environmental and Health
Commission, which is an advisory body to the Board of Trustees, except as to
matters where the Village Code gives final authority to the Commission. When
used in this Chapter, “Commission” shall be construed to mean the Environmental
and Health Commission and “Commissioners” shall be construed to mean the
members of the Commission.
   B.   Members: The Commission shall consist of five Commissioners appointed
by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Village Board. The
Village President shall designate one of the Commissioners to serve as
Chairperson. The position of the Chairperson shall be reviewed on an annual
basis.
   C.   Term of Office: The first appointees shall serve for the following
terms, or until their respective successors, in similar manner, have been
appointed and qualified: two for one year, two for two years, one for three
years. Successors to each member so appointed shall serve three-year terms,
except that vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the seat
vacated. The term of each Commissioner shall expire April 30 of the year of
expiration of its respective term of office.
   D.   Compensation: Commissioners shall serve their appointed terms without
compensation. (Ord. 2020-06, 5-20-2020)
2-5-2: MEETINGS:
The Commission shall meet monthly, on the first Tuesday of each month. Special
meetings of the Commission may be called by the Chairperson or by any two (2)
members of the Commission.
The Commission shall hold public meetings, and where appropriate, public
hearings, on issues related to Title 4 - Public Health and Sanitation and Title
5 - Environmental Concerns of the Village Code or at the direction of the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
The presence of a majority of the Commission members then in office shall be
necessary to constitute a quorum to transact any Commission business at any
regular or special meeting of the Commission. (Ord. 2020-06, 5-20-2020)
2-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   To collect general environmental and/or technical information as may
pertain to the quality of life within the Village and to make such material
available to the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   To alert the Village President and Board of Trustees to state and
federal laws relative to the environment which may require attention and/or
action on the part of the board.
   C.   To make recommendations to the Village President and Board of Trustees
for adoption of policies, programs and/or goals which would improve or sustain
the environment of the Village and which would not conflict with state or
federal laws.
   D.   The Commission may consider an application for a septic variance for a
specific property, but only upon proof of notification by the applicant to all
real estate taxpayers within two hundred fifty feet (250') from the specific
location of the proposed variation. Said notice shall advise such taxpayers of
the variance requested and the time and date of the meeting of the
Environmental and Health Commission. Notice shall be given not less than ten
(10) nor more than thirty five (35) days prior to the meeting of the commission
where the request shall be considered.
   E.   To perform such other duties and functions as may be requested by the
Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 1176, 11-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-06, 5-20-
2020)
2-5-4: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
   A.   The Commission shall submit recommendations to the Village Board in
writing. A minority report may be attached to the majority recommendation.
   B.   The Recording Secretary shall have the following duties:
      1.   Record and maintain permanent minutes of the Commission meetings and
hearings. Minutes shall show the vote of each Commissioner upon every question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact.
      2.   All official records of the Commission shall be maintained by the
Clerk. Before official records are turned over to the Clerk, the Recording
Secretary shall be the custodian of the records and any exhibits submitted.
(Ord. 2020-06, 5-20-2020)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL 2
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-1-3: Right To Sell Liquor
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Investigations And Examinations
3-1-6: Issuance Of License
3-1-7: License Fees And Term
3-1-8: License Classifications And Number of Licenses
3-1-9: Nontransferability Of License; Abandonment
3-1-10: Days And Hours Of Sales
3-1-11: Location Of Establishments
3-1-12: Happy Hours Prohibited
3-1-13: Underage Persons
3-1-14: Persons Restricted On Premises; Conduct
3-1-15: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-4 of this Code for citation provisions relative to businesses.
2 1. See section
  1-4-4 of this code for citation provisions.
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this chapter which are defined in the Illinois
statutes in the liquor control act of 1934 1  (herein referred to as "the act")
shall be as defined in said act. (1977 Code §
5-1-2; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-1-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   President Serve As: The Village President shall be the local liquor
control commissioner. The local liquor control commissioner may appoint a
person or persons to assist him in the exercise of the powers and performance
of the duties herein provided. When the local liquor control commissioner shall
be referred to in this chapter, any person, committee or other agency appointed
by such local liquor control commissioner shall be included.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The local liquor control commissioner shall also
have the following powers, functions and duties with respect to retail licenses
for the sale of alcoholic liquors:
      1.   To grant or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days, or revoke
for cause, all local licenses issued to persons for premises within the
Village. (1977 Code §
5-1-6)
      2.   To enter, or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter, upon
any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of
this chapter or of the act or any rules or regulations adopted by him or by the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission have been or are being violated and, at such
time, to examine the premises of the licensee in connection therewith.
      3.   To receive complaint from any citizen within his jurisdiction that
any of the provisions of this chapter or the act or any rules or regulations
adopted pursuant thereto or of this chapter have been or are being violated and
to act upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter provided. (1977 Code §
5-1-6; amd. 2004 Code)
      4.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
Village Treasurer. (1977 Code §
5-1-6)
3-1-3: RIGHT TO SELL LIQUOR:
Except as permitted by this chapter, no person, firm, partnership, association
or corporation shall engage in the business of or act as a liquor dealer
selling, offering for sale, or keeping with the intention of selling for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form, alcoholic liquor capable of being
consumed as a beverage by a human being within the Village. (1977 Code §
5-1-1)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An applicant for a retail liquor license from the Village shall submit to the
local liquor control commissioner an application in writing, under oath
stating: (1977 Code §
5-1-3)
   A.   The name, date of birth and address of the applicant, in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit, or club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors and any person who owns five percent
(5%) or more of the shares of the applicant business entity or parent
corporations of the applicant business entity. (1977 Code §
5-1-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   C.   The character of business of the applicant, and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it is formed.
   D.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
   G.   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in the application, and
the disposition of such application.
   H.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter.
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor.
   J.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the ordinances
of the village or the provisions of this code or the laws of the state, or of
the United States, in the conduct of his place of business. (1977 Code §
5-1-3)
   K.   A statement that the applicant has not received or borrowed money or
anything else of value, and that he will not receive or borrow money or
anything else of value (other than merchandising credit) in the ordinary course
of business for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, as expressly permitted
under the act, directly or indirectly, from any manufacturer, importing
distributor, or distributor, or any representative of any such manufacturer,
importing distributor, or distributor, nor be a party in any way, directly or
indirectly, to any violation by a manufacturer, importing distributor, or
distributor, as provided in said act relating to alcoholic liquors. (1977 Code
§
5-1-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   L.   If said application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two (2) members of such partnership, or the president or secretary of
such corporation. (1977 Code §
5-1-3)
3-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS AND EXAMINATIONS:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the right to examine, or cause
to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served in the manner hereinafter provided, and to examine, or cause to be
examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee, to hear
testimony and take proof for his information in the performance of his duties,
and for such purpose, to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part
of the state. For the purpose of obtaining any information desired by the local
liquor control commissioner under this section, he may authorize his agent to
act on his behalf. (1977 Code §
5-1-7)
3-1-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
A retail license for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall be issued by the
Village President as the local liquor control commissioner, subject to the
provisions of the act. (1977 Code §
5-1-5; amd. 2004 Code)
3-1-7: LICENSE FEES AND TERM:
The license fee for a Class “A” liquor license shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) and the license fee for a Class "AC" liquor license shall be two
thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($2,250.00) per annum, payable at the time
application is made to the local liquor control commissioner. The licenses
shall expire on April 30 following the date of issuance; provided, however,
that the license fee for any application for the period after November 1 and
before April 30 shall be fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee. (Ord. 1264, 4-
22-2015, amd. Ord. 2020-13, 11-18-2020)
3-1-8: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS AND NUMBER OF LICENSES:
Not more than two (2) licenses shall be issued within the village pursuant to
this chapter. There shall be two (2) classes of liquor licenses:
Class "A" license: A Class "A" liquor license shall authorize the retail sale
of alcoholic liquors for consumption only on the premises specified. There
shall not be issued at any one time any more than two (2) class "A" liquor
licenses in the Village.
Class "AC" license: A Class "AC" liquor license may be applied for by an
existing liquor license holder, which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises specified and allow limited
catered retail sales of alcoholic liquor for private events, which take place
off-site from the specified licensed premises. A private event shall be defined
as an event not open or available to the general public, except by reservation
or special invitation where alcoholic beverages are served in connection with
and incidental to the catering of food. This license shall not extend to off-
site premises located outside of the jurisdictional territory of the Village.
(1977 Code §
5-1-13, amd. Ord. 2020-13, 11-18-2020)
3-1-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; ABANDONMENT:
The license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
year after issuance, and shall not constitute property, be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, or be alienable or transferable, as
provided under the act. Failure to renew a liquor license and pay for such
license during the first ten (10) days of the month in which such payment is
due may be considered by the local liquor control commissioner as an
abandonment by such licensee of his right to a renewal of such license. (1977
Code §
5-1-4; amd. 2004 Code)
3-1-10: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
No person licensed hereunder as a retailer of alcoholic liquor shall sell,
permit to be sold, exchange for a thing or things, or give away any alcoholic
liquor between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. of any day with the exception of Friday night, Saturday night, and nights
prior to any holidays when the closing hours for those nights shall be three
o'clock (3:00) A.M. During such closed period of time, the premises licensed
may be kept open, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to the public during
those closed hours. Limited catered retail sales or service of alcoholic
beverages off premises shall occur solely between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) A.M and twelve o'clock (12:00). (1977 Code §
5-1-10, amd. Ord. 2020-13, 11-18-2020)
3-1-11: LOCATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS:
No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, kept for sale, displayed or
advertised for sale at retail or delivered to any person purchasing the same at
retail, except at a location, place, or premises described in a retail license
duly issued by the local liquor control commissioner. (1977 Code §
5-1-9)
3-1-12: HAPPY HOURS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Schedule Of Drink Prices Required: All retail licensees shall maintain
a schedule of the prices charged for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be
served and consumed on the licensed premises or in any room or part thereof.
Whenever a hotel or multiuse establishment which holds a valid retailer's
license operates on its premises more than one establishment at which drinks of
alcoholic liquor are sold at retail, the hotel or multiuse establishment shall
maintain at each such establishment a separate schedule of the prices charged
for such drinks at that establishment.
   B.   Number Of Drinks Served At One Time Restricted: No retail licensee or
employee or agent of such licensee shall:
      1.   Serve two (2) or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that one person, except when selling or delivering
wine by the bottle or carafe;
      2.   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public;
      3.   Sell, offer to sell or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price is a promotion to
encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, except as authorized in subsection
C7 of this section;
      4.   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or the
size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      5.   Encourage or permit on the licensed premises any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      6.   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under subsections B1 through B5 of
this section.
   C.   Permitted Activities: Nothing in subsection B of this section shall be
construed to prohibit a licensee from:
      1.   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      2.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
      3.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      4.   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic content as part of a contract
between a hotel or multiuse establishment and another group for the holding of
any function, meeting, convention or trade show;
      5.   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      6.   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets), carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner and delivered to two (2) or more persons at one time; or
      7.   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in whole
or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment not
regularly scheduled.
   D.   Violations: A violation of this section shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of the retailer's license as provided by section
3-1-15 of this chapter. (1977 Code § 5-1-14)
3-1-13: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Sales To: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee of
such licensee to sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Employment: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee
of such licensee to engage, or employ, or permit anyone under the age of
sixteen (16) years to work, entertain, or act as host or hostess in or upon the
licensed premises while such premises are open for the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor.
   C.   Purchase By: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any tavern
or other place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   D.   Acceptance By, Possession Prohibited; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful
for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to accept a gift or have
in his possession any alcoholic liquor. The possession and dispensing or
consumption by a person under the permitted age under the direct supervision
and approval of the parents or parent of such person under the permitted age in
the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this chapter. The possession by a
person under the age of twenty one (21) years making a delivery of an alcoholic
beverage in pursuance of the order of his parent or in pursuance of his
employment is not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   Responsibility Of Property Owner/Occupant: It shall be unlawful for any
owner or occupant of any property located within the Village to knowingly allow
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to remain on such property
while in the possession of alcoholic liquor or while consuming alcoholic liquor
in violation of the provisions of this section. (1977 Code §
5-1-11)
3-1-14: PERSONS RESTRICTED ON PREMISES; CONDUCT:
No person licensed under this chapter shall permit any disorderly conduct or
disturbance of the peace thereof. (1977 Code §
5-1-12; amd. 2004 Code)
3-1-15: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: The local liquor control commissioner may revoke or suspend
any license issued by him if he determines that the licensee has violated any
of the provisions of the act, or of any valid ordinance or resolution adopted
by the Village Board of Trustees, or any applicable rule or regulation
established by the local liquor control commissioner which is not inconsistent
with law.
   B.   Hearing; Notice; Summary Suspension: No such license shall be so
revoked or suspended except after a public hearing by the local liquor control
commissioner with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee affording said
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend; provided, however, that if the
local liquor control commissioner has reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community, he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating
the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee
an opportunity to be heard during that period; except, that if such licensee
shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses. All such hearings shall be open to the public and shall comply with
state statutes.
   C.   Decisions: The local liquor control commissioner shall, within five (5)
days after such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for such
determination in a written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a
copy of such order within the said five (5) days upon said licensee. (1977 Code
§
5-1-8; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Appeals: The licensee, after the receipt of such order of suspension or
revocation, shall have the privilege, within a period of twenty (20) days after
the receipt of such order of suspension or revocation, of appealing said order
to the Illinois liquor control commission, and upon the filing of such an
appeal by the licensee, he may resume his business until such time as said
commission shall render a decision either sustaining the order of the local
liquor control commissioner or reversing said order. (1977 Code §
5-1-8)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Certificate Of Registration
3-2-3: Notice Regulating Peddlers And Solicitors
3-2-4: Duties Of Solicitors And Peddlers
3-2-5: Uninvited Soliciting Or Peddling
3-2-6: Time Limit On Soliciting And Peddling
3-2-7: Violation; Penalties
3-2-8: Constitutional Rights
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-4 of this code for citation provisions.
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the Village who does not maintain in the state an
established office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center
or residence from which such business is conducted; provided, however, this
term shall not include any person who delivers tangible personal property
within the Village who is fulfilling an order for such property which was
solicited or placed by mail or other means. It shall be prima facie evidence
that a person is an "itinerant vendor" if the person does not transact business
from a fixed location or if the person does not own, or lease, for a term of at
least six (6) months, the property from which business is conducted.
PEDDLING: Selling or offering for sale, barter or exchange at retail any goods,
wares, merchandise or services of any kind whatsoever by traveling from place
to place along the streets of the Village or from residence to residence
therein, but shall not include solicitation or canvassing for future delivery.
"Peddling" may, in some instances, include the activities of an "itinerant
vendor" or "transient merchant", as defined herein. If a peddler is also an
"itinerant vendor" or "transient merchant", as defined herein, then those
provisions shall also be applicable. To the extent that the provisions of this
chapter relative to "peddling" are inconsistent with those relating to
"itinerant vendors" and/or "transient merchants", the more restrictive
provisions shall apply.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR AND REGISTERED PEDDLER: Any person who has obtained a
valid certificate of registration as herein provided, where such certificate is
in the possession of, and on the person of, the one soliciting or peddling
during all soliciting or peddling.
REGISTERED TRANSIENT MERCHANT AND REGISTERED ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who
is a "transient merchant" or "itinerant vendor" as defined herein and who has
obtained and has in his possession a valid certificate of registration.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITING: Any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, insurance, or services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever, all for future delivery;
provided, however, that seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines,
periodicals, newspapers and every other type or kind of publication shall not
be deemed to be soliciting, and such activities are not regulated by this
chapter.
B. Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any other
valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of
goods, wares or merchandise in the village and who, for the purpose of
conducting such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of
any kind, or vacant lot; provided, however, this term does not include any
person selling goods, wares or merchandise which are raised, produced or
manufactured by him, to any person selling vegetables, fruit or perishable farm
products at an established village market, to any person operating a store or
refreshment stand at a resort, or to any person operating a stand or booth on
or adjacent to property owned by him or upon which he resides. It shall be
prima facie evidence that a person is a "transient merchant" if the person does
not transact business from a fixed location or if the person does not own, or
lease for a term of at least six (6) months, the property from which business
is conducted. (1977 Code §
5-2-1)
3-2-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Certificate Required: A written application for a certificate of
registration as herein provided shall be secured by every person desiring to
engage in "soliciting" or "peddling", as herein defined, from persons in
residences within the village and, in addition, by every person desiring to
engage in soliciting from any business, office or manufacturing facility within
the village for gifts or contributions of money, clothing or other valuable
thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit association,
organization, corporation or project. (1977 Code §
5-2-2)
   B.   Application For Certificate:
      1.   Application Form; Oath: Application for a certificate of
registration shall be made upon a form provided by and filed with the Village
Clerk. The applicant shall state, under oath, such information requested on the
application form as is required by the provisions of this chapter and such
other relevant information as determined by the Village Clerk. (1977 Code §
5-2-3)
      2.   Fingerprints And Photographs: The Village Clerk shall require every
applicant to submit to fingerprinting in connection with the application for
certificate, and the applicant shall submit to identification photographing
conducted by the Village Clerk, and such identification photograph shall be
affixed to the certificate of registration. Fingerprinting is only required at
the initial application and is hereby waived upon renewal of a registration
issued within the prior eighteen (18) months, provided that fingerprinting
shall be required if the applicant has a different employer or seeks to engage
in a different type of solicitation. (Ord. 1218, 3-28-2012)
      3.   Criminal History: Each applicant shall also apply to the office of
the county sheriff for a certified copy of his personal criminal history, and
such applicant shall provide such information and fees to the sheriff as
required by the sheriff to obtain such certified copy, and the applicant shall
further request that the sheriff also directly provide to the village for
review by the Village President a certified copy of the applicant's personal
criminal history prior to the approval of such certificate for such applicant.
   C.   Restrictions For Registrants: No certificate of registration shall be
issued: 1) to anyone seeking to solicit for a charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project unless such charity or
nonprofit group is specifically approved in advance by the Board of Trustees
which may waive requirement of individual registration and fees if a list of
names and addresses of individuals to be involved are supplied to the Village
Clerk; or 2) to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or federal law of
the United States, within five (5) years of the date of the application; or 3)
to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter or to any person whose certificate of registration issued
hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided unless specifically
approved by the Board of Trustees. (1977 Code §
5-2-3)
   D.   Fees:
      1.   Fees Established: A fee shall be paid at the time of filing the
application, as follows:
Certificate Requested   Fee
One day   $35.00
More than one day and not 50.00
more than one week
More than one week 75.00
(1977 Code §
5-2-3; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Waiver Of Fees: The Village President may waive such fee in his
discretion, but all fee waivers shall be reported to the Village Board. (1977
Code §
5-2-3)
   E.   Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate; Contents:
      1.   Denial: The Village President, after consideration of the
application and all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the
application if the applicant does not possess the qualifications for such
certificate as herein required. Endorsement shall be made by the Village
President upon the application of the denial of the application.
      2.   Issuance: When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the
certificate of registration shall be issued by the Village President or his
designees.
      3.   Time Limit For Action: All applications shall be acted upon by the
Village President within seven (7) days after receipt of a completed
application.
      4.   Contents: Each certificate of registration shall state the
expiration date thereof.
   F.   Revocation Of Certificate: Any certificate of registration issued
hereunder may be revoked by the Village President if the holder of the
certificate is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, or has made a false material statement in the application, or
otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a certificate of
registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately upon such revocation,
written notice thereof shall be given by the Village President to the holder of
the certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his address
set forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice of
revocation, the certificate of registration shall become null and void. (1977
Code §
5-2-4)
   G.   Records Kept: The Village Clerk shall cause to be kept in his office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon, together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto, and of all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued. (1977 Code §
5-2-3)
3-2-3: NOTICE REGULATING PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS:
   A.   Notice Requirements: The owner or occupant of any residence who desires
to forbid trespasses by solicitors or peddlers, or unlicensed solicitors and
peddlers, may attach or exhibit upon or near the main front door, and the main
rear or side door (if any, and if to be protected), a card or plaque stating
such of the following as may be appropriate, in letters at least one-third inch
(1/3") in height:
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS NOT INVITED
or
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS NOT INVITED
UNLESS REGISTERED WITH THE VILLAGE
B. Nonexclusive Notice Provided By Village: For the convenience of residents of
the Village and for purposes of uniformity, cards or plaques containing the
foregoing legend shall be made available by the Village. The form of card or
plaque provided for in this section shall not be deemed to be an exclusive form
of notice. Such card or plaque so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice
to any solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon. (1977 Code §
5-2-5)
3-2-4: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS:
A. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon any property of another in
the Village after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the
owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or to remain upon the property
of another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart.
B. A person shall be deemed to have received notice from the owner or occupant
within the meaning of this chapter if he has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry
has been conspicuously posted at the main entrance to said property or the
forbidden part thereof.
C. Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or
not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested
to do so by the occupant. (1977 Code § 5-2-6)
3-2-5: UNINVITED SOLICITING OR PEDDLING:
A. Uninvited Soliciting Or Peddling Prohibited: Any person soliciting or
peddling who is forbidden entry by notice given in compliance with this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of remaining on the property after receiving notice to
depart if he shall remain on the property, or if he shall ring the doorbell or
knock or create any sound calculated to attract the attention of the occupant.
B. Exemptions: Notices exhibited pursuant to this chapter shall not be deemed
applicable to and shall not prevent access to residential property by a
solicitor or peddler who has received prior invitation, written or oral, from
the owner or occupant thereof. (1977 Code § 5-2-7)
3-2-6: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as
herein defined prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national
holiday. (1977 Code § 5-2-8; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A. Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this chapter or of failing
to comply with any requirement hereof, or of violating any permit, any
approval, or any directive issued under the provisions of this chapter, shall
be guilty of a petty offense, punishable by a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) and of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (1977 Code § 5-2-10)
B. Reimbursement Of Costs: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of this chapter or of failing
to comply with any requirement hereof, or of violating any certificate, any
approval, or any directive issued under the provisions of this chapter, shall,
in addition to the fines provided, be obligated to reimburse the Village for
its attorney fees, court costs, court reporter costs, and expert witness fees,
and all other out of pocket costs incurred by the Village in the prosecution of
the said violation or violations. (1977 Code § 5-2-10; amd. 2004 Code)
C. Injunctive Relief: The Village may make application to the circuit court for
an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order
as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter. (1977 Code
§ 5-2-10)
3-2-8: CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or enforced to deprive any person
of any rights guaranteed under the constitution of the state or the United
States. (1977 Code § 5-2-11)
CHAPTER 3
GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES 1
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Permit Requirements
3-3-3: Days, Hours And Number Of Sales
3-3-4: Advertising Signs
3-3-5: Display Of Merchandise Restricted
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-4 of this code for citation provisions.
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
OCCASIONAL SALES: Those sales of goods, wares, and merchandise owned by the
occupier or former occupant of the premises or owned by a group of persons
having a common sale generally known as garage sales, basement sales, house
sales, estate sales, yard sales and rummage sales conducted on an infrequent
and irregularly scheduled basis on premises zoned or used for residential
purposes. Bulk sales, the sale of multiple new items of the same description,
and the sale of consigned merchandise, merchandise brought to the premises for
resale or for reconditioning for resale are prohibited.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, organization or corporation, including any not
for profit or religious organization. (1977 Code §
5-4-1)
3-3-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exemption: Whenever three (3) or more persons from
different households conduct a combined occasional sale on the same day or
days, which sale offers items for sale at three (3) or more residences, a
permit shall be required. No permit shall be required for other "occasional
sales", as defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: The permit application shall be filed with the
Village Clerk by the applicant appearing in person or by sending the
application by mail, utilizing a permit application provided by the Village
Clerk. The application shall contain the names and addresses of all persons
offering items for sale from their residences in the combined occasional sale.
The permit application shall be signed by one or more members of each household
offering goods for sale in the combined occasional sale, and the application
shall state that all those whose names are listed in the application shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter. (1977 Code §
5-4-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Permit Fee: The fee for each such permit issued shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Display Of Permit: Each permit shall be prominently displayed on one of
the premises covered by the permit in such a manner that it is easily visible
to persons passing by the premises. (1977 Code §
5-4-3)
3-3-3: DAYS, HOURS AND NUMBER OF SALES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or allow the conducting of an
"occasional sale", as defined herein, on premises zoned or used for residential
purposes over a period of time in excess of two (2) days or to conduct more
than one such occasional sale on the same premises, by the same household,
within any six (6) month period. It is further provided that no "occasional
sale", as defined herein, shall begin before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. nor
continue later than six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (1977 Code §
5-4-2)
3-3-4: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
Signs advertising any such occasional sale or designating its location shall
comply with the provisions of chapter 10 of the Village zoning ordinance. (1977
Code §
5-4-4)
3-3-5: DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to display for sale any goods, wares or
merchandise under the provisions of this title beyond the front building line
of the house. (1977 Code §
5-4-5)
CHAPTER 4
SCAVENGERS AND RECYCLING 1
SECTION:
3-4-1: Licensing Requirements
3-4-2: Vehicle Requirements
3-4-3: Disposal And Storage Restrictions
3-4-4: Placing Residential Refuse, Compostables And Recyclables For Pick Up
3-4-5: Screening Commercial Storage Areas
3-4-6: Recyclable And Compostable Materials
3-4-7: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 3 of this code.
3-4-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Nonexclusive License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in the business of scavenger, or the collection or disposal of animal,
human or vegetable refuse, offal, garbage, trash, rubbish, recyclables, or
compostable materials without having first secured a nonexclusive license to
engage in such business. (1977 Code §
5-5-1)
   B.   Application For License; Issuance: Applications for any such license
shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be referred by the Clerk to the
President and Board of Trustees. No such license shall be issued except on
order of the corporate authorities. (1977 Code §
5-5-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Term Of License; Fee: The license required herein shall be secured
annually for the period of May 1 through April 30, and the annual license fee
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); provided, however, nothing contained
herein shall be interpreted or construed so as to prevent the Board of Trustees
from amending the provisions of this chapter as they deem appropriate from time
to time. (1977 Code §
5-5-2)
   D.   Insurance Requirements: Each licensed scavenger at all times shall have
a policy or certificate of insurance, issued by a company or companies
acceptable to the Village, showing proof of insurance as required herein. All
such policies or certificates of insurance shall be in a form acceptable to the
Village Attorney. The licensee shall maintain the full insurance coverage
required herein at all times, and a duplicate certificate of insurance shall be
deposited with the Village Clerk. Each policy shall provide that such insurance
may not be canceled except upon thirty (30) days' prior written notice to the
Village Clerk. The minimum required insurance shall be:
      1.   Workers' Compensation: Workers' compensation insurance as required
by the state.
      2.   Vehicle Liability: Vehicle liability insurance with limits of not
less than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each person, and five
million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for each accident for bodily injury liability,
and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for each accident for property damage
liability.
      3.   General Liability: General liability under a comprehensive liability
policy for its operations other than vehicular operations with limits of at
least three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each person, and five million
dollars ($5,000,000.00) for each accident for bodily injury liability, and one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for each accident for property damage
liability. (1977 Code § 5-5-7)
   E.   Number Of Licenses: There shall be one license issued for residential
service in the Village and two (2) licenses for commercial and any other
nonresidential service. Such commercial and other nonresidential service is
hereafter referred to in this chapter as "commercial".
   F.   Nontransferability Of License: No license issued pursuant to the terms
of this chapter may be transferred, assigned, or used by any other person other
than the person to whom it is originally issued without the express written
consent of the Village. (1977 Code §
5-5-1)
   G.   Denial Or Revocation Of License:
      1.   Findings: Any refuse collection license may be revoked by the
Village President or any application for issuance or renewal of such license
may be refused by the Village President in the event that the Village President
determines that:
         a.   The applicant or licensee has made any false, fraudulent, or
misleading material statement, or has been convicted of perpetrating a fraud
upon any person, whether or not such fraud was perpetrated in the course of
conducting any business with the Village, or that the applicant or license
holder has committed a felony; or
         b.   The applicant or licensee has conducted any activities directly
related to his business in the Village in an unlawful manner or in such a
manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the public; or
         c.   The applicant or licensee is in default under any of the
provisions of this chapter or under any contract with the Village.
      2.   Appeals:
         a.   Any applicant or licensee aggrieved by the action of the Village
President in refusing to issue any license or in revoking any license already
issued shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board.
         b.   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village Clerk,
within fourteen (14) days after notice of the action complained of has been
mailed, postage prepaid, to such applicant's or licensee's last known address,
a written statement setting forth fully the grounds of appeal.
         c.   The Village Board shall set a time and place for a hearing on
such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant by
certified mail, return receipt requested, not less than seven (7) days prior to
such hearing.
         d.   The applicant or licensee shall have the right to be represented
at such hearing by counsel. The decision and order of the Village Board on such
appeal shall be final and conclusive. (1977 Code § 5-5-7)
3-4-2: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Watertight And Covered; Exceptions: Any vehicle used for the
transportation of refuse by any licensed scavenger shall be watertight and
equipped with airtight covers. Open body trucks, dump trucks, and similar
equipment may be used only for large bulky items such as discarded furniture,
fixtures, and permitted household appliances or loads consisting of dry
rubbish; provided, such loads are completely protected and securely covered by
tarpaulins or other such covers in such a manner as to prevent such rubbish
from being spilled or scattered.
   B.   Maintenance: All truck bodies shall be maintained in good repair and
clean condition and shall be completely emptied at the end of each day of use
and shall be flushed thoroughly at the end of each day of use, weather
permitting.
   C.   Sunday Use Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any such vehicle to be
driven over or through any street in the Village during or on a Sunday. (1977
Code §
5-5-3)
3-4-3: DISPOSAL AND STORAGE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to dispose of or store any refuse in any
place within the Village limits or within one mile thereof, excepting with the
permission of the President and Board of Trustees and, in addition, the Village
reserves the right to direct any scavenger licensed by it to dispose of all or
any part of the refuse collected by such scavenger within the Village to the
solid waste management agency of Lake County when the facilities of that agency
are available; provided, that any such disposition shall not be contrary to the
provisions of any contract to which the Village is a party. (1977 Code §
5-5-4)
3-4-4: PLACING RESIDENTIAL REFUSE, COMPOSTABLES AND RECYCLABLES FOR PICK UP:
No residential garbage, refuse, recyclables, or compostables shall be placed on
any portion of any public or private road, street or alley, or within twenty
five feet (25') thereof, earlier than twenty four (24) hours prior to the
scheduled time and date for the pick up of such garbage, recyclables, and/or
compostables for said premises, and any garbage, recyclables and/or
compostables placed earlier than as aforesaid are hereby declared to be public
nuisances. Such nuisance may be abated at the direction of the Village
President, and the removal of such nuisance shall be at the expense of the
owners and residents of the premises in question, who shall be jointly and
severally liable for such cost. (1977 Code § 5-5-6)
3-4-5: SCREENING COMMERCIAL STORAGE AREAS:
All commercial garbage, refuse, recyclables and compostables shall be stored in
an enclosed or fenced area to screen the same from view. (1977 Code § 5-5-6)
3-4-6: RECYCLABLE AND COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS:
   A.   Regulations Regarding Containers:
      1.   Ownership; Use; Theft:
         a.   Each licensed scavenger operating within the Village shall
provide its respective customers with specially labeled recycling containers at
such customers' expense, but for charges to be approved in advance by the
Village, and the customers shall thereafter be the owners of such recycling
containers.
         b.   Licensed scavengers shall provide replacement recycling
containers to their respective customers, at such customer's expense, whenever
replacement is required.
         c.   Abuse, theft, and/or misuse of such recycling containers is
prohibited and shall constitute a violation of this chapter, subjecting the
violator to the penalties as provided by this chapter.
      2.   Placement And Storage: Recycling containers shall be stored on each
customer's premises in conformance with the provisions of this chapter and may
be placed at the designated location for collection only during the times
specified in this chapter.
   B.   Unauthorized Removal Of Recyclable And Compostable Materials
Prohibited: The initial recycling services which shall be provided by each
licensed scavenger serving the Village shall provide for the separation of
recyclables and compostables from normal household and commercial refuse and
for placement of such recyclables in their respective approved containers and
collection from the normal collection point on the regular designated pick up
day. The Village may from time to time alter the definition of recyclables and
compostables to be separated from the household and commercial waste stream,
and each licensed scavenger operating within the Village shall promptly include
those materials in its respective recycling services when requested to do so by
the Village. Once recyclables and compostables have been placed in or alongside
the container and set at the curb or other designated collection location, such
materials shall become the property of the licensed scavenger servicing the
premises in question, and it shall be unlawful for any other person, firm or
corporation to move, remove or tamper with such recyclables. Each such
movement, removal, or tampering in violation hereof from one or more locations
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as provided by this
chapter. (1977 Code § 5-5-5)
3-4-7: PENALTY 1 :
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation is found to exist shall be deemed
a separate violation, for which a fine shall be imposed. (1977 Code § 5-5-8;
amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-4-4 of this code, citation provisions.
CHAPTER 5
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose And Interpretation
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Policy Statement
3-5-4: Existing Towers And Antennas
3-5-5: Location Of Facilities
3-5-6: Collocation On Towers
3-5-7: Design Criteria
3-5-8: Inspection Requirements
3-5-9: Landscaping And Screening
3-5-10: Abandonment Of Facilities
3-5-11: Application Requirements; Approval Or Disapproval
3-5-12: Third Party Review
3-5-13: Remedies
3-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide specific regulations
for the placement, construction and modification of personal wireless service
facilities.
   B.   Interpretation And Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this
chapter are not intended to and shall not be interpreted to prohibit or to have
the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, nor
shall the provisions of this chapter be applied in such a manner as to
unreasonably discriminate between providers of functionally equivalent personal
wireless services.
   C.   Conflicting Provisions: To the extent that any provision of this
chapter is inconsistent or in conflict with any other provision of this code or
any ordinance of the Village, the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to
control. (1977 Code §
12-1-1)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ANTENNA: Any exterior apparatus or apparatuses designed for telephonic, radio,
data or internet communications through the sending and/or receiving of
electromagnetic waves, including equipment attached to a tower or building for
the purpose of providing personal wireless services and its attendant base
station.
ANTENNA HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the base of the antenna
support structure at grade to the highest point of the structure even if said
highest point is an antenna. Measurement of tower height shall include antenna,
base pad, and other appurtenances and shall be measured from the finished grade
of the parcel. If the support structure is on a sloped grade, then the average
between the highest and lowest grades shall be used in calculating the antenna
height.
ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Any pole, telescoping mast, tower, tripod or other
structure which supports a device used in the transmitting or receiving of
radio frequency signals.
BACK HAUL PROVIDER: The lines that connect a provider's tower and a provider's
antennas to one or more switching offices and/or long distance providers of the
public switching telephone network.
CELL SITE: A tract or parcel of land that contains the personal wireless
service facilities, including any antenna, support structure, accessory
buildings, and parking, and may include other uses associated with and
ancillary to personal wireless services.
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES, PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES AND
FACILITIES: Shall be defined in the same manner as in title 47 United States
Code 332(c)(7)(C), and as they may be amended.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers. The term encompasses personal wireless service
facilities towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone
towers, personal communications services towers, alternative tower structures,
and the like. (1977 Code §
12-1-2)
3-5-3: POLICY STATEMENT:
The corporate authorities have, on numerous occasions and with increasing
frequency, been confronted with requests to site communications towers and
antennas. The purpose of this chapter is to establish general guidelines for
the siting of towers and antennas. The goals of this chapter are to: a)
encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas, or if nonresidential
areas are unavailable, then on residential property consisting of five (5) or
more acres and to minimize the total number of towers throughout the Village,
b) encourage strongly the joint use of new and existing tower sites, c)
encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the extent possible,
in areas where the adverse impact on the Village is minimal, d) encourage users
of towers and antennas to configure them in a way that minimizes the adverse
visual impact of the towers and antennas, and e) enhance the ability of the
providers of personal wireless services to provide such services throughout the
Village quickly, effectively, and efficiently. Accordingly, the corporate
authorities finds that the promulgation of this chapter is warranted and
necessary:
   A.   To manage the location of towers and antennas in the Village.
   B.   To encourage tower placement in commercial and industrial zoned areas.
   C.   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers, including support structure failure and falling ice.
   D.   To minimize adverse visual impacts of towers through careful design,
siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging techniques.
   E.   To accommodate the growing need for towers.
   F.   To promote and encourage shared use/collocation of existing and new
towers as a primary option rather than construction of additional single use
towers, and to reduce the number of such structures needed in the future. (1977
Code §
12-1-3)
3-5-4: EXISTING TOWERS AND ANTENNAS:
   A.   Existing Structures Permitted: All towers and antennas existing on the
passage date of this chapter shall be allowed to continue their usage as they
presently exist.
   B.   Maintenance: Routine maintenance shall be permitted on such existing
towers and antennas.
   C.   Construction Other Than Maintenance: New construction other than
routine maintenance on existing towers shall comply with the provisions set
forth in this chapter. (1977 Code §
12-1-3)
3-5-5: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Industry Site Selection Criteria: In siting a new personal wireless
service facility, the industry requires a location that is technically
compatible with the established network. A general area is to be identified
based upon engineering constraints and the desired area of service. Specific
locations within that general area will be evaluated by the Village, using the
following criteria which are not listed in order of priority:
      1.   Topography as it relates to line of sight transmissions.
      2.   Availability of road access. Access roads must remain capable of
supporting all of the emergency response equipment of the Village.
      3.   Availability of electric power.
      4.   Availability of land based telephone lines or microwave link
capability.
      5.   Leasable lands and landlords who want facilities to be located on
their properties consistent with zoning regulations.
      6.   Screening potential of existing vegetation, structures and
topographic features.
      7.   Zoning considerations.
      8.   Compatibility with adjacent land uses.
      9.   The least number of sites to cover the desired area.
      10.   The greatest amount of coverage, consistent with physical
requirements.
      11.   Opportunities to mitigate possible visual impact.
      12.   Availability of suitable existing structures for antenna mounting.
(1977 Code §
12-1-4)
   B.   Village Site Selection Criteria:
      1.   As a fundamental element of this chapter, and in addition to the
criteria stated in subsection A of this section, the personal wireless service
provider proposing to construct an antenna support structure or mount an
antenna on an existing structure is required to demonstrate, using
technological evidence, that the antenna must be placed in the approximate
location which is proposed in order to satisfy its function in the provider's
grid system. Further, the provider must demonstrate by technological evidence
that the height requested is the minimum height with a necessary allowance for
the potential collocation by other telecommunications providers as hereinafter
described, necessary to fulfill the cell site's function within the grid
system.
      2.   Consistent with providing service, personal wireless services
facilities should be located and designed to minimize any adverse effects they
may have on residential property values. Sites should be placed in locations
where the existing topography, vegetation, buildings or other structures
provide the greatest amount of screening. Location and design of sites should
consider the impact of the site on the surrounding neighborhood and the visual
impact within the zoning district. (1977 Code §
12-1-5)
   C.   Priorities: The following establishes a general order of priorities for
locating new personal wireless service facilities:
      1.   Place antennas and towers on Village Hall site.
      2.   Place antennas and towers in districts zoned business or commercial.
      3.   Place antennas on appropriate existing communications structures.
      4.   Place antennas and towers at locations which minimize the impact on
residential neighborhoods.
      5.   Place antennas and towers in residential districts only if locations
for which a need has been demonstrated are not available in nonresidential
districts.
   D.   Placement In Residential Areas:
      1.   An applicant for a new antenna support structure to be located in a
residential zoning district shall demonstrate that a diligent effort has been
made to locate the proposed communications facilities on a government
structure, a private institutional structure, or other appropriate existing
structures within a nonresidential zoning district, and that due to valid
considerations, including physical constraints and economic or technological
feasibility, no other appropriate location is available.
      2.   The personal wireless services provider is required to demonstrate
that it contacted the owners of tall structures within a one mile radius of the
site proposed, asked for permission to install the antenna on those structures,
and was denied for reasons other than economic ones.
      3.   The information submitted by the applicant shall include a map of
the area to be served by the tower, its relationship to other antenna sites in
the applicant's network, and an evaluation of the suitability of existing
buildings taller than forty five feet (45'), communications towers and water
tanks within one mile of the proposed tower.
   E.   Placement On Village Property:
      1.   Minimum Requirements: The placement of personal wireless service
facilities on Village owned property shall comply with the following
requirements:
         a.   The applicant shall negotiate and obtain a lease or other
agreement with the Village regarding such placement and shall comply with the
terms therein;
         b.   The antenna or tower will not interfere with the purpose for
which the Village owned property is intended;
         c.   The antenna or tower will have minimal impact on surrounding
property;
         d.   The applicant is willing and is able to obtain adequate liability
insurance and commit to a lease agreement which includes equitable compensation
for the use of public land and other necessary provisions and safeguards. The
compensation for the lease shall be established by the corporate authorities
after considering comparable rates in other communities, potential expenses,
and other appropriate factors;
         e.   The applicant will submit an irrevocable letter of credit
acceptable to the Village to cover the costs of the antenna's or tower's
removal upon termination of the lease;
         f.   The applicant must reimburse the Village for any costs which the
Village incurs by reason of the lease and the presence of the applicant's
antenna or tower; and
         g.   The applicant must obtain other land use approvals if required.
      2.   Special Prohibition: In no case shall antennas be allowed in parks
or areas designated as conservation areas.
      3.   Application Requirements: All applicants who wish to locate an
antenna or tower on Village owned property must submit to the Village a
completed application that complies with the submittal requirements of this
chapter delineated in section
3-5-11.
      4.   Reservation Of Right: Notwithstanding the above, the Board of
Trustees reserves the right to deny the use of any or all Village owned
property by any one or all applicants. (1977 Code §
12-1-6)
3-5-6: COLLOCATION ON TOWERS:
To minimize adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation of towers,
collocation of antennas by more than one provider on existing or new towers
shall be required rather than the construction of new single use towers as
follows:
   A.   Collocation Advised: Providers may, and are encouraged to, collocate
antennas onto towers, provided, such collocation is accomplished in a manner
consistent with the policy, site criteria, landscape/screening and all other
provisions contained in this chapter, then such collocations are permitted by
right, and new or additional special review approval is not required; provided
further, that any other permit, license, lease, or franchise requirements must
also be satisfied.
   B.   Site Plan Provisions: Unless the corporate authorities determine that
collocation is not feasible, the site plan shall delineate an area near the
base of the tower to be used for the placement of additional equipment or
buildings for other users. The site plan for towers in excess of one hundred
feet (100') must propose space for two (2) or more other users while the site
plan for towers under one hundred feet (100') must propose space for one other
user. To provide further incentive for collocation as a primary option, an
existing tower may be modified or reconstructed to accommodate the collocation
of an additional antenna; provided, that an application is filed and approved
by the Village.
   C.   Modifications To Existing Towers: Upon the approval of the Village, an
existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller height, not to exceed the
height limitation for towers and antennas as contained in the zoning ordinance,
to accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna. The height change may
occur only once per tower, and the tower as modified must comply with the other
provisions of this chapter. (1977 Code §
12-1-7)
3-5-7: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Towers: In order to reduce the number of antenna support structures
needed in the Village in the future, any new proposed support structure shall
be designed to accommodate antennas for more than one user, unless the
applicant demonstrates why such design is not feasible for economic, technical
or physical reasons. The Village may deny the application to construct a new
tower if the applicant has not made a good faith effort to mount the antenna on
an existing structure.
      1.   Monopole Tower: Every new tower shall be a monopole rather than
lattice type tower, unless otherwise authorized by the corporate authorities
for good cause shown.
      2.   Setback: Tower setbacks shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the property line of the parcel on which it is located. Towers shall comply
with the minimum setback requirements of the area in which they are located in
all zoning districts in addition to the specific requirements for towers and
antennas contained in the zoning ordinance. In no event shall the tower be less
than two hundred twenty five feet (225') from the closest residential
structure.
      3.   Lights, Signals And Signs: No signals, lights or signs shall be
permitted on towers unless required or recommended by the FCC or the FAA.
      4.   Tower Safety: The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed
tower is safe and the surrounding areas will not be negatively affected by
support structure failure, falling ice or other debris or interference. All
towers shall be fitted with anti-climbing devices, as approved by the
manufacturers.
      5.   Standards: To ensure the safe operation of towers, the owner of a
tower shall maintain the tower in compliance with all FCC and FAA standards and
applicable standards of any other governmental agency and the applicable
standards for towers that are published by the electronic industries
association (EIA), as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the
Village concludes that a tower fails to comply with such standards or
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then, upon notice being provided
to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such
tower into compliance with such standards. If the owner fails to bring such
tower into compliance within said thirty (30) days, the Village may remove such
tower at the owner's expense, or the Village shall have the right to bring the
tower into compliance, the costs of which shall constitute a lien on the
property, and the Village shall have the right to record and enforce said lien.
      6.   Structural Design: Towers shall be constructed to the EIA standards,
which may be amended from time to time, and all applicable construction/
building codes. Further, any improvements and/or additions to existing towers
shall require submission of site plans sealed and verified by a professional
engineer which demonstrate compliance with the EIA standards and all other good
industry practices in effect at the time of said improvement or addition. Said
plans shall be submitted and reviewed at the time existing building permits are
requested.
   B.   Antennas: To the extent feasible, antennas on or above a structure
shall be subject to the following:
      1.   The antenna must be architecturally compatible with the building and
wall on which it is mounted and designed and located so as to minimize any
adverse aesthetic impact.
      2.   The applicant shall demonstrate that the antenna is the minimum
height required to function satisfactorily.
      3.   The antenna shall be mounted on a wall of an existing building in a
configuration as flush to the wall as technically possible and shall not
project above the wall on which it is mounted unless, for technical reasons,
the antenna needs to project above the wall. In no event shall an antenna
project more than fifteen feet (15') above the height of the building.
      4.   The antenna shall be constructed, painted or fully screened to match
as closely as possible the color and texture of the building and wall on which
it is mounted.
      5.   The antenna may be attached to an existing conforming mechanical
equipment enclosure which projects above the roof of the building, but may not
project any higher than fifteen feet (15') above the enclosure.
      6.   If an accessory equipment shelter is to be erected or is present,
the equipment shelter must blend to the extent practicable with the surrounding
buildings in architectural character and color. The structure must be
architecturally and visually (color, size and bulk) compatible with surrounding
existing buildings, structures and/or uses or those likely to exist under the
terms of the underlying zoning.
      7.   If a proposed antenna is to be located on a building or a lot
subject to a special use permit, written Village approval is required prior to
the issuance of a building permit for the antenna.
      8.   No antenna shall be permitted on property designated as an
individual landmark or as a part of a historic district or site, unless such
antenna has been approved in accordance with this chapter and written
permission is obtained from the Village.
      9.   On buildings forty five feet (45') or more in height, the antenna
may be mounted on the roof if:
         a.   The Village finds that it is not technically possible or
aesthetically desirable to mount the antenna on a wall.
         b.   No portion of the antenna or base station causes the height of
the building to exceed the limitations set forth herein.
         c.   Roof mounted antennas are completely screened from view by
materials that are consistent and compatible with the design, color, and
materials of the building.
         d.   No portion of the antenna may extend more than fifteen feet (15')
above the height of the existing building.
      10.   No antenna shall cause localized interference with the reception or
transmission of any other communications signals including, but not limited to,
public safety signals, and television and radio broadcast signals.
   C.   Facilities: Facilities should be architecturally compatible with the
surrounding buildings and land uses in the zoning district or otherwise
integrated, through location and design, to blend in with the existing
characteristics of the site to the extent practical.
   D.   Color: Towers and antennas shall have a color generally matching the
building, surroundings or background that minimizes their visibility, unless a
different color is required by the FCC or FAA. Muted colors, earth tones and
subdued colors shall be used wherever possible. The paint on the tower shall be
properly maintained.
   E.   Equipment Structures: Ground level equipment and buildings and the
tower base shall be adequately screened. The standards for the equipment
buildings are as follows unless otherwise authorized by the corporate
authorities for good cause shown:
      1.   The maximum floor area is four hundred (400) square feet and the
maximum height is twelve feet (12'), and the structure shall be designed and
constructed so as to facilitate an adjoining equipment structure of another
provider which would abut the original equipment structure.
      2.   Ground level buildings shall be screened from adjacent properties by
landscape plantings, fencing or other appropriate means, as specified herein or
elsewhere in this code.
      3.   Equipment mounted on a roof shall have a finish similar to the
exterior building walls. Equipment for roof mounted antennas may also be
located within the building on which the antennas are mounted, subject to good
engineering practices. Antennas and related equipment shall occupy no more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the total roof area of a building.
   F.   Federal Requirements: All towers and antennas must meet or exceed
current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of
the federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If
such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and
antennas governed by this chapter shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations within three (3) months
of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a more
stringent compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling federal agency.
Upon failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations, the Village shall have the right to remove said
towers and antennas at the owner's expense at any time after sixty (60) days'
certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice to the owner at his
last known address.
   G.   Fencing: A well constructed wood fence, stucco, masonry or stone wall
or other fencing ("fencing") not less than six feet (6') in height from
finished grade shall be provided around each tower. The type of fencing shall
be subject to review and approval of the corporate authorities. Security
fencing should be colored or should be of a design which blends into the
character of the existing environment. Access to the tower shall be through a
locked gate.
   H.   Site Characteristics: Site location and development shall preserve the
preexisting character of the site as much as possible. Existing vegetation
should be preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography of
the site should be minimized, unless such disturbance would result in less
visual impact of the site on the surrounding area. The effectiveness of visual
mitigation techniques must be evaluated by the Village, in the Village's sole
discretion, taking into consideration the site as built.
   I.   Cooperation: No personal wireless service facility owner or lessee or
officer or employee thereof shall act to exclude or attempt to exclude any
other personal wireless service provider from using the same building,
structure or location. Personal wireless service facility owners or lessees or
officers or employees thereof shall cooperate in good faith to achieve
collocation of personal wireless service facilities and equipment with other
personal wireless service providers pursuant to a commercially reasonable lease
agreement. If a dispute arises about the feasibility of accommodating another
competitor, the Village may require a third party technical study, at the
expense of either or both parties, to resolve the dispute.
   J.   Wind: The antennas and their support structures shall be designed to
withstand a wind force of one hundred (100) miles per hour without the use of
supporting guy wires. No guy or other support wires shall be used in connection
with such antennas or their support structures except when used to anchor the
antennas or support structures to an existing building. (1977 Code §
12-1-8)
3-5-8: INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
Within thirty (30) days after a facility becomes operational, and each year
thereafter, the facility operator shall conduct a safety inspection in
accordance with FCC standards and, within sixty (60) days of the inspection,
file a report with the Village. However, at the option of the Village, the
Village may secure the services of an independent safety consultant to conduct
a safety inspection, and the owner of the facilities shall reimburse the
Village for the reasonable cost of said inspection. In addition, the facility
operator shall provide the Village, on a quarterly basis, a report stating the
active or inactive status of the facilities including the tower and antennas.
Additionally, in the event there are any increases to the wattage of the tower
output, the facility operator shall notify the Village within five (5) business
days of any such wattage increase. (1977 Code §
12-1-9)
3-5-9: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING:
   A.   Landscaping Required: Reasonable landscaping, as described herein,
shall be required to screen as much of the support structure as reasonable and
feasible. The fencing surrounding the support structure and any other ground
level features (such as a building), shall be designed to soften the appearance
of the facility's site. The Village may permit any combination of existing
vegetation, berming, topography, walls, decorative fences or other features
instead of landscaping, if this achieves the same objective of screening the
facility. If the antenna is mounted flush on an existing building, and all
other equipment is either housed inside an existing building or screened from
view, landscaping shall not be required, except as otherwise required by other
provisions of this code for the existing use.
   B.   Landscaping And Screening Specifications: The visual impacts of a tower
shall be mitigated through landscaping or other screening materials at the base
of the tower and ancillary structures. The following landscaping and buffering
of towers shall be required around the perimeter of the tower and accessory
structures. Landscaping shall be installed on the outside of fences. Further,
existing vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent practicable and
may be used as a substitute for or to supplement compliance with landscaping
requirements.
      1.   A row of evergreen trees a minimum of ten feet (10') tall at
planting and a maximum of six feet (6') apart shall be planted around the
perimeter of the fence unless adequate landscaping or screening is in place, or
the Village determines otherwise.
      2.   A continuous hedge at least thirty six inches (36") high at planting
capable of growing to at least forty eight inches (48") in height within
eighteen (18) months shall be planted in front of the tree line referenced
above unless adequate landscaping or screening is in place or the Village
determines otherwise.
      3.   Each owner, operator, lessee, or licensee shall maintain all fencing
and landscaping, including replacing any landscaping if necessary. If the
Village specifically requests the owner, operator, lessee, or licensee to
replace fencing or landscaping, the owner, operator, lessee or licensee shall
promptly comply with any such request. (1977 Code §
12-1-10)
3-5-10: ABANDONMENT OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Abandonment Determined; Options Of Tower Owner: In the event the use of
any tower or the facilities has been discontinued for a period of sixty (60)
consecutive days, the facilities shall be deemed to be abandoned. Determination
of the date of abandonment shall be made by the Village which shall have the
right to request documentation and/or affidavits from the tower owner/operator
regarding the issue of tower usage. Upon such abandonment, the owner/operator
of the tower shall have an additional sixty (60) days within which to:
      1.   Reactivate the use of the tower or transfer the tower to another
owner/operator who makes actual use of the tower; or
      2.   Dismantle and remove the facilities including, but not limited to,
the tower, storage shed, fence, driveway and all other ancillary structures and
to restore the property, including the landscaping, to the extent reasonably
possible, to the conditions existing at the time of installation of the
facilities. If such tower is not removed within said sixty (60) days, the
Village may remove such tower at the owner's expense. If there are two (2) or
more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective
until all users cease using the tower. Unnecessary sections of the tower shall
be removed.
   B.   Expiration Of Tower Use Approval: At the earlier of sixty (60) days
from the date of abandonment without reactivation or upon completion of
dismantling and removal, Village approval for the tower shall automatically
expire.
   C.   Responsibilities Of Owner/Occupant:
      1.   If an abandonment of a tower occurs by all of the permittees,
licensees or owner of the tower, the owner of the tower shall remain primarily
responsible if the tower ceases to be used for its intended purposes by either
it or other permittees or licensees for the transmission or reception of
personal wireless services.
      2.   In the event that the tower ceases to be licensed by the FCC for the
transmission of radio energy, the owner of the tower shall maintain the
prescribed painting and/or illumination of such tower until it is dismantled.
   D.   Use Of Credit By Village: The application for any tower shall be
accompanied by a letter of credit in an amount to be determined by the Village
which may be drawn upon by the Village as necessary to cover the costs of
removal of the tower as discussed in subsection 3-5-5E1e of this chapter. (1977
Code §
12-1-11)
3-5-11: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   Required Information: All personal wireless service facilities
applicants shall, at the discretion of the corporate authorities, be required
to submit any combination of site plans, surveys, maps, technical reports or
written narratives necessary to convey the following information:
      1.   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and height
of the proposed tower and antennas, buildings, on site land uses and zoning,
adjacent land uses and zoning, adjacent roadways, proposed means of access,
setbacks from property lines, fencing, landscaping/screening and elevation
drawings of the proposed tower, and any other proposed structures.
      2.   A current map or survey showing the location of the proposed tower.
      3.   Legal description of the parcel.
      4.   Distance between the proposed tower and the nearest residential
unit, platted residentially zoned properties, and unplatted residentially zoned
properties.
      5.   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials.
      6.   Method of fencing and finished color and, if applicable, the method
of camouflage and illumination.
      7.   A statement under oath signed by the applicant stating the tower and
antenna will comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations
(including specifically FAA and FCC regulations) and this chapter.
      8.   A statement by the applicant as to whether construction of the tower
will accommodate collocation of additional antenna(s) for future users.
      9.   Certification that the antenna usage will not interfere with other
transmission or reception functions of other communications facilities.
      10.   Identification of the entities providing the back haul network for
the tower antennas described in the application.
      11.   The personal wireless services provider must demonstrate that it is
licensed by the FCC, if required to be licensed under FCC regulations, for the
provision of service within the Village.
      12.   The applicant, if not the personal wireless services provider,
shall submit proof of lease agreements with an FCC licensed personal wireless
services provider if such telecommunications provider is required to be
licensed by the FCC.
      13.   At the time of site selection, the applicant should demonstrate how
the proposed site fits into its overall network within the Village, and if the
applicant is able or unable to collocate on an existing structure. The
applicant shall submit information requested by the Building and Zoning Officer
and corporate authorities related to the availability of suitable existing
towers, other structures or alternative technology. If the applicant believes
that collocation is unavailable to the applicant and that no reasonable
alternative technology exists to accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna,
then the applicant shall submit evidence to demonstrate that no existing tower,
structure or alternative technology can accommodate the applicant's proposed
antenna, and said evidence may consist of the following:
         a.   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         b.   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         c.   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
         d.   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna.
         e.   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable.
         f.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
         g.   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable microcell
network using multiple low powered transmitters/receivers attached to a wire
line system, is unsuitable. Costs of alternative technology that exceed new
tower or antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology
unsuitable.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: All pending or new applications for the
siting of personal wireless service facilities shall comply with the provisions
set forth in this chapter. (1977 Code §
12-1-12)
   C.   Action On Application: In the course of reviewing any request for any
approval required under this chapter made by an applicant to provide personal
wireless services or to install personal wireless service facilities, the
corporate authorities shall act within a reasonable period of time after the
request is duly filed with the Village, taking into account the nature and
scope of the request, and any decision to deny such a request shall be in
writing and supported by substantial evidence contained in a written record.
(1977 Code §
12-1-1)
3-5-12: THIRD PARTY REVIEW:
The personal wireless services providers use various methodologies and analysis
tools, including geographically based computer software, to determine the
specific technical parameters of personal wireless services, such as expected
coverage area, antenna configuration and topographic constraints that affect
signal paths. In certain instances there may be a need for expert review by a
third party of the technical data submitted by the personal wireless services
provider. The Village may require such a technical review to be paid for by the
applicant for the personal wireless service facilities. The selection of the
third party expert may be by mutual agreement between the applicant and Village
or at the discretion of the Village, with a provision for the applicant and
interested parties to comment on the proposed expert and review its
qualifications. The expert review is intended to be a site specific review of
technical aspects of the personal wireless service facilities and not a
subjective review of the site selection. Such a review should address the
accuracy and completeness of the local data, whether the analysis, techniques
and methodologies are legitimate, the validity of the conclusions and any
specific technical issues outlined by the board of trustees, the Building and
Zoning Officer, Village staff, third party consultants or other interested
parties. Based on the results of the third party review, the Village may
require changes to the application for the personal wireless service facilities
that comply with the recommendations of the expert. (1977 Code §
12-1-13)
3-5-13: REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions or terms of this
chapter, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day during which the offense continued. (1977 Code
§
12-1-14; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Injunction; Additional Remedies: In addition to a fine, the Village
shall have the right to seek injunctive relief for any and all violations of
this chapter and all other remedies provided at law or in equity. If the
Village prevails in any action at law or in equity, the Village shall also be
entitled to recover its attorney fees, costs and all other expenses incurred in
conjunction therewith, as may be summarily assessed and awarded by the court as
part of its judgment. (1977 Code §
12-1-14)
CHAPTER 6
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose And Scope
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Annual Registration Required
3-6-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
3-6-5: Action On Permit Applications
3-6-6: Effect Of Permit
3-6-7: Revised Permit Drawings
3-6-8: Insurance
3-6-9: Indemnification
3-6-10: Security
3-6-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
3-6-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
3-6-13: General Construction Standards
3-6-14: Traffic Control
3-6-15: Location Of Facilities
3-6-16: Construction Methods And Materials
3-6-17: Vegetation Control
3-6-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
3-6-19: Cleanup And Restoration
3-6-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
3-6-21: Variances
3-6-22: Penalties
3-6-23: Enforcement
3-6-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the Village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the Village
rights of way and the Village as a whole.
   B.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public
rights of way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   C.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The Village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the Village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the Village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the Village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   D.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the Village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the Village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   E.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all titles and
chapters of the Village code or parts of titles and chapters adopted prior
hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict, provided
that in the event of any inconsistency with chapter 5, "Personal Wireless
Service Facilities", of this title the provisions of said chapter 5 shall
govern.
   F.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   G.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The Village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the Village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the Village of North Barrington.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The Village Director of Public Works, if any, or his
or her designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including track and
rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights
of way under this chapter, except those owned by the Village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
ILCC: Illinois commerce commission.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the Village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the Village has
the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of
facilities other than those of the Village. "Right of way" shall not include
any real or personal Village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include Village buildings, fixtures,
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include wireless telecommunications
as defined in the Illinois telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
act, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 635/1 et seq.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code, and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
"Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end to end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities, and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end to end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the Village
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right of way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this chapter.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VILLAGE: The Village of North Barrington.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-
2007)
3-6-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the Village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the engineer, providing the utility's name, address
and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of one or more
contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of way and a twenty
four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance
as required in section
3-6-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. A
telecommunications provider that has registered under this section, shall be
deemed to have satisfied the registration requirement under this code. (Ord.
1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village
right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the "right of way" (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the Village Engineer and obtaining a permit from the
Village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall
be required for installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
and
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the Village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ILCC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the Village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
3-6-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required by this
chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter; and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of new electric power, communications or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" has been issued by the ILCC that the applicant is
required by law, or has elected, to obtain;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount established by resolution of this
Village. No application fee is required to be paid by any telecommunications
retailer that is paying the municipal telecommunications infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to this code or the optional state telecommunications
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the telecommunications municipal
infrastructure maintenance fee act, or by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The Village
Engineer shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the facility
may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work by this chapter the telecommunications retailer
shall submit to the Village an application for a permit and any and all plans,
specifications and documentation available regarding the facility to be
constructed. Such application shall be subject to the requirements of
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on Village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights of way.
   B.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
Village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the Village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with this chapter. If the Village
denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall either remove the
facility from the right of way or modify the facility so that it conforms to
the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-
2007)
3-6-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the Village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the Village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the Village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Manager [Administrator] of such intent
to cancel or not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-
2007)
3-6-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the Village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the Village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the Village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the Village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the Village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the Village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the Village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the Village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the Village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the Village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village Engineer
may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single
amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction
under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall
be equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the
provisions of this subsection C for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The Village upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the Village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the Village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the Village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the Village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the Village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-
2007)
3-6-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The Village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The Village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this chapter.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the public rights of way and restore the rights
of way to the satisfaction of the Village providing written proof of such
removal to the Village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the Village or
its designee may, at the option of the Village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the Village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the Village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the Village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the Village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 1118, 7-
25-2007)
3-6-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The Village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to this
chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the Village. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   B.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of Village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ILCC's
rules entitled "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The Village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR 192.707 (1989)).
   C.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The Village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   D.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The Village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The Village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   E.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The Village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   F.   Aboveground Installation: Aboveground facilities may be installed only
if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Village Engineer.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the Village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the engineer.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the engineer.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                            Minimum Cover
Power or communication line (in general)    30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication line installed by the plowed  24 inches (0.6 m)
method
Gas or petroleum products                   30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                                  Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage    Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                         protection
 
   B. Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1. Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a. Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities within
Village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code 305 (formerly
general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled "rules for
construction of electric power and communication lines", and the national
electrical safety code.
         b. Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c. Underground Facilities:
            (1) Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2) If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3) Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
      2. Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a. The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b. Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the ditch
lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c. Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines or
toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d. Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3. Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a Village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4. Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5. Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or Drainage
Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and drainage lines
within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the current
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois".
      6. Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to overhead
or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall be
provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the engineer. With the approval of the engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free
area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
   C. Materials:
      1. General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2. Material Storage On Right Of Way: All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval
must be obtained from the Village.
      3. Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the Village
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D. Operational Restrictions:
      1. Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of the
Village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2. These restrictions may be waived by the engineer when emergency work
is required to restore vital utility services.
      3. Unless otherwise permitted by the Village, the hours of construction
are between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday.
   E. Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the Village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The Village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the Village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 1118,
7-25-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
3-6-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A. Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
chapter.
      1. Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2. Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   B. Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The Village may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   C. Chemical Use: Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of vegetation
control. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A. Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
Village, a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities within
the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such
removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any Village improvement
in or upon, or the operations of the Village in or upon, the rights of way.
   B. Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights of
way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1. Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2. If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3. If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance of
a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4. If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C. Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the Village, as the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D. Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights of way of the Village, the utility shall notify the Village
within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the Village may
direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village
Engineer determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the Village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the Village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a timely
manner and to the satisfaction of the Village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Village Engineer. Such cleanup and repair
may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or
any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project.
(Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A. General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the Village and at the utility's expense.
   B. Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1. If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the right
of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2. In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the 3.
In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete repairs as
rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the traveling
public.
   C. Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the Village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-21: VARIANCES:
   A. Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more of
the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Village Engineer as
a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision of
this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance
should be granted.
   B. Authority To Grant Variances: The Village Engineer shall decide whether a
variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   C. Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The Village Engineer may authorize a
variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      1. One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2. All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D. Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Village Engineer may require the utility requesting
the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the purposes of
this chapter. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the Village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
Village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility who does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
3-6-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1118, 7-25-2007)
CHAPTER 6A
SMALL CELL ANTENNA/TOWERS
SECTION:
3-6A-1: Definitions
3-6A-2: Standards And Regulations
3-6A-3: Permits And Application Fees And Procedures
3-6A-4: Conflict Of Laws
3-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms will have the following
meanings:
ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE: An existing pole or other structure within the
public right-of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a utility
pole or a Village-owned infrastructure.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio signals used in the provision of any type of wireless communications
services.
APPLICANT: Any person or entity submitting an application to install personal
wireless telecommunication facilities or structures to support the facilities
within a public right-of- way.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): A type of personal wireless telecommunication
facility consisting of a network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected
to a common source via a transport medium that provides wireless service within
a geographic area, generally serves multiple carriers.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery, bushes
or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from public view.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA: An antenna that is part of a
personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Equipment, exclusive of an
antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An antenna, equipment, and
related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data video streams, images, or other information
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, paging, and Wi-Fi antenna service.
SMALL CELL FACILITIES: A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity in a limited defined
area. Generally single- service provider installation.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an alternative
antennae structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure. The requirements for a
tower and associated antenna facilities shall be those required in this
chapter.
UTILITY POLE: An upright pole designed and used to support electric cables,
telephone cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which are
used to provide lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function.
VARIANCE OR VARIATION: A grant of relief by the Village Administrator or his/
her designee.
VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure in public right-of- way within the
boundaries of the Village, including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic
signals, towers, structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained by the
Village.
WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices. (Ord. 1298, 1-25-2017)
3-6A-2: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
Personal wireless telecommunication facilities will be permitted to be placed
in right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village as attachments to
existing utility poles, alternative antenna structures, or Village-owned
infrastructure subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Number Limitation And Co-Location: The Village Administrator or his/her
designee may regulate the number of personal wireless telecommunications
facilities allowed on each utility pole or unit of Village-owned
infrastructure. No more than two (2) personal wireless telecommunications
facilities will be permitted on utility poles or alternative antenna structure
of ninety feet (90') or less. No more than three (3) personal wireless
telecommunications facilities will be permitted on utility poles or alternative
antenna structures in excess of ninety feet (90') and less than one hundred
twenty feet (120'). This chapter does not preclude or prohibit co-location of
personal wireless telecommunication facilities on towers or monopoles that meet
the requirements as set forth elsewhere in this section or as required by
Federal law.
   B.   Separation And Clearance Requirements: Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities may be attached to a utility pole, alternative
antenna structure, monopole, or Village-owned infrastructure only where such
pole, structure or infrastructure is located no closer than a distance equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the height of such facility to any residential
building and no closer than three hundred feet (300') from any other personal
wireless telecommunication facility. A separation or lesser clearance may be
allowed by the Village Administrator or his/her designee as an administrative
variance to this chapter when the applicant establishes that the lesser
separation or clearance is necessary to close a significant coverage or
capacity gap in the applicant's services or to otherwise provide adequate
services to customers, and the proposed antenna or facility is the least
intrusive means to do so within the right- of-way.
   C.   Village-Owned Infrastructure: Personal wireless telecommunication
facilities may only be mounted to Village-owned infrastructure including, but
not limited to, streetlights, traffic signal, towers or buildings, if
authorized by a license or other agreement between the owner and the Village.
   D.   New Towers: No new monopole or other tower to support personal wireless
telecommunication facilities in excess of sixty feet (60') is permitted to be
installed on right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village unless the
Corporate Authorities find, based on clear and convincing evidence provided by
the applicant, that locating the personal wireless telecommunications
facilities on the right-of-way is necessary to close a significant coverage or
capacity gap in the applicant's services or to otherwise provide adequate
services to customers, and the proposed new monopole or other tower within the
right-of-way is the least intrusive means to do so.
   E.   Attachment Limitations: No personal wireless telecommunication antenna
or facility within the right-of-way will be attached to a utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower, or Village- owned infrastructure unless
all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   Surface Area Of Antenna: The personal wireless telecommunication
antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas or dish-shaped antennas,
cannot have a surface area of more than seven (7) cubic feet in volume.
      2.   Size Of Above-Ground Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facility:
The total combined volume of all above-ground equipment and appurtenances
comprising a personal wireless telecommunication facility, exclusive of the
antenna itself, cannot exceed thirty two (32) cubic feet.
      3.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of a
personal wireless telecommunication facility must, whenever possible, locate
the base of the equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower than eight
feet (8') above grade.
      4.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Services Equipment Mounted At
Grade: In the event that the operator of a personal wireless telecommunication
facility proposes to install a facility where equipment or appurtenances are to
be installed at grade, screening must be installed to minimize the visibility
of the facility. Screening must be installed at least three feet (3') from the
equipment installed at-grade and eight feet (8') from a roadway.
      5.   Height: The top of the highest point of the antenna cannot extend
more than seven feet (7') above the highest point of the utility pole,
alternative antenna support structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure.
If necessary, the replacement or new utility pole, alternative support
structure or Village-owned infrastructure located within the public right-of-
way may be no more than ten feet to seventy feet (10' - 70') higher than
existing poles adjacent to the replacement or new pole or structure, or no more
than ninety feet (90') in height overall, whichever is less.
      6.   Color: A personal wireless telecommunication facility, including all
related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color that blends with the
surroundings of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted and use non- reflective materials which blend with the materials and
colors of the surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must be covered with
an appropriate cover.
      7.   Antenna Panel Covering: A personal wireless telecommunication
antenna may include a radome, cap or other antenna panel covering or shield, to
the extent such covering would not result in a larger or more noticeable
facility and, if proposed, such covering must be of a color that blends with
the color of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted.
      8.   Wiring And Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the
remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the Electrical
Code currently in effect. No wiring and cabling serving the facility will be
allowed to interfere with any wiring or cabling installed by a cable television
or video service operator, electric utility or telephone utility.
      9.   Grounding: The personal wireless telecommunication facility must be
grounded in accordance with the requirements of the Electrical Code then in
effect in the Village.
      10.   Guy Wires: No guy or other support wires will be used in connection
with a personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is to
be attached to an existing utility pole, alternative antenna support structure,
tower or Village- owned infrastructure that incorporated guy wires prior to the
date that an applicant has applied for a permit.
      11.   Pole Extensions: Extensions to utility poles, alternative support
structures, towers and Village-owned infrastructure utilized for the purpose of
connecting a personal wireless telecommunications antenna and its related
personal wireless telecommunications equipment must have a degree of strength
capable of supporting the antenna and any related appurtenances and cabling and
capable of withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance with the
applicable structural integrity standards as set forth in subsection E12 of
this section. An extension must be securely bound to the utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure in
accordance with applicable engineering standards for the design and attachment
of such extensions.
      12.   Structural Integrity: The personal wireless telecommunication
facility, including the antenna, pole extension and all related equipment must
be designed to withstand a wind force and ice loads in accordance with
applicable standards established in chapter 25 of the National Electric Safety
Code for utility poles, rule 250-B and 250-C standards governing wind, ice, and
loading forces on utility poles, in the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) in TIA/EIA section 222-G established by the Telecommunications Industry
Association (TIA) and the Electronics Industry Association (EIA) for steel
wireless support structures and the applicable industry standard for other
existing structures. For any facility attached to Village-owned infrastructure
or, in the discretion of the Village, for a utility pole, tower, or alternative
antenna structure, the operator of the facility must provide the Village with a
structural evaluation of each specific location containing a recommendation
that the proposed installation passes the standards described above. The
evaluation must be prepared by a professional structural engineer licensed in
the State of Illinois.
   F.   Signage: Other than signs required by Federal law or regulations or
identification and location markings, installation of signs on a personal
wireless telecommunication facility is prohibited.
   G.   Screening: If screening is required pursuant to this chapter, it must
be natural landscaping material or a fence subject to the approval of the
Village and must comply with all regulations of the Village. Appropriate
landscaping must be located and maintained and must provide the maximum
achievable screening, as determined by the Village, from view of adjoining
properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
such screening is required to extend more than nine feet (9') in height.
Landscape screening when permitted in the right-of-way must be provided with a
clearance of three feet (3') in all directions from the facility. The color of
housing for ground- mounted equipment must blend with the surroundings. For a
covered structure, the maximum reasonably achievable screening must be provided
between such facility and the view from adjoining properties and public or
private streets. In lieu of the operator installing the screening, the Village,
at its sole discretion, may accept a fee from the operator of the facility for
the acquisition, installation, or maintenance of landscaping material by the
Village.
   H.   Permission To Use Utility Pole Or Alternative Antenna Structure: The
operator of a personal wireless telecommunication facility must submit to the
Village written copies of the approval from the owner of a utility pole,
monopole, or an alternative antenna structure, to mount the personal wireless
telecommunication facility on that specific pole, tower, or structure, prior to
issuance of the Village permit.
   I.   Licenses And Permits: The operator of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility must verify to the Village that it has received all
concurrent licenses and permits required by other agencies and governments with
jurisdiction over the design, construction, location and operation of said
facility have been obtained and will be maintained within the corporate limits
of the Village.
   J.   Variance Requirements: Each location of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility within a right-of-way must meet all of the
requirements of this chapter, unless a variance has been obtained in accordance
with chapter 6 of this title.
   K.   Abandonment And Removal: Any personal wireless telecommunication
facility located within the corporate limits of the Village that is not
operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, shall be considered
abandoned and the owner of the facility must remove same within ninety (90)
days of receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return-
receipt-requested, by the Village to such owner at the last known address of
such owner. In the case of personal wireless telecommunication facilities
attached to Village owned infrastructure, if such facility is not removed
within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the
removal of such facility through the terms of the applicable license agreement
or through whatever actions are provided by law for removal and cost recovery.
(Ord. 1298, 1-25-2017)
3-6A-3: PERMITS AND APPLICATION FEES AND PROCEDURES:
Permits for placement of personal wireless telecommunication facilities in
right-of-way within the Village are required. Except as otherwise provided for
by in this chapter, the procedures for the application for, approval of, and
revocation of such a permit must be in compliance with Village permit
application requirements in this chapter. Any applications must demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this section. Unless otherwise provided by
franchise, license, or similar agreement, or Federal, State or local law, all
applications for permits pursuant to this section must be accompanied by a fee
which reimburses the Village for all Village expenses related to the issuance
of the permit, with the applicant depositing an amount estimated by the Village
Administrator in the Village Trust and Agency account, but the amount of fee
charged shall be not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or such amount
as may be established by resolution of the Corporate Authorities from time to
time. The application fee will reimburse the Village for regulatory and
administrative costs with respect to the work being performed. (Ord. 1298, 1-
25-2017)
3-6A-4: CONFLICT OF LAWS:
Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this article regarding the
siting and installation of personal wireless telecommunication facilities are
more restrictive than comparable conditions imposed elsewhere in chapter 6 of
this title or in any other local law, ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation, the regulations of this chapter will govern. (Ord. 1298, 1-25-2017)
CHAPTER 7
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-7-1: License Required
3-7-2: Applications
3-7-3: Raffle Manager, Bond
3-7-4: Restrictions Of Licenses
3-7-5: Conduct Of Raffles
3-7-6: Limitations On Licenses
3-7-7: Records
3-7-8: Penalty
3-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any organization to conduct raffles or chances within
the Village unless the organization has a valid license issued in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide
service, religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, education or veteran
organizations that operate without profit to their members and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before
making application for a license and which have been, during that entire five
(5) year period, a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their
objectives. (Ord. 1342, 4-24-2019)
3-7-2: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the President and Board
of Trustees, signed by the applicant's presiding officer and/or secretary or
his or her duly authorized representatives and verified by oath or affidavit,
and shall contain the following information and statements:
      1.   Names, ages and addresses of the organization's presiding officer,
secretary, raffle manager or any other individuals directly involved in the
administration of the raffle, the date of formation of such organization, and
the objects for which the organization was formed.
      2.   The license shall contain information including the aggregate retail
sale value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by the licensee in a single
raffle, the maximum retail value of each prize awarded by the licensee in a
single raffle, the maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold by the licensee and the number of days during which the chances
are to be sold. The aggregate retail value of the prizes, the retail value of
each prize, the price which may be charged for each raffle chance and the
number of days during which said chances may be sold is subject to the approval
of the Board.
      3.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
upon which the raffle will be held.
      4.   The area or areas within the Village in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued, the time period during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued, the date and time of determining the winning chances and the method by
which the winning chance will be determined.
      5.   A statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
respective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and secretary
of that organization.
      6.   A statement that the applicant's presiding officer, secretary,
raffle manager or any other individuals directly involved in the administration
of the raffle have never been convicted of a felony and are not disqualified to
receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in this chapter,
other ordinances of this Village, laws of the State of Illinois, including but
not limited to the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes
15/0.01 et seq., or of the United States of America.
      7.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or by
the Federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor.
      8.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Illinois or of the United States or any ordinances of the Village
in the conduct of the raffle.
      9.   A statement that the applicant will not allow gambling devices or
gambling on the premises where the drawing will be held. (Ord. 1342, 4-24-2019)
3-7-3: RAFFLE MANAGER, BOND:
Operation and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a single
raffle manager designated by the organization making application for a license.
The raffle manager shall give a fidelity bond in an amount not less than the
anticipated gross receipts for each raffle. The bond shall be in favor of the
organization and conditioned upon his or her honesty in performance of his or
her duties. The bond shall also provide that notice be given in writing to the
Village of North Barrington not less than thirty (30) days prior to its
cancellation. The organization's presiding officer or designee is authorized to
request a waiver of the bond requirement, which will only be granted with a
statement that the organization agreed to the bond waiver through a unanimous
vote of the members of the organization. The bond waiver request must be
included with the application. (Ord. 1342, 4-24-2019)
3-7-4: RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSES:
   A.   No such license shall be issued to:
      1.   A raffle manager who is not a resident of the Village;
      2.   A raffle manager who is not a citizen of the United States;
      3.   A raffle manager who has been convicted of a felony under any
Federal or State law;
      4.   A raffle manager who has been convicted of pandering or other crimes
or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      5.   An organization whose license issued under this chapter has been
revoked for cause;
      6.   Any law enforcing public official, any Village official, President,
Trustee, or member of the Village Board or commission, or any President or
member of a County Board and no such official shall be interested in any way;
      7.   An organization or raffle manager who has been convicted of a
gambling offense as proscribed by either local, State or Federal law;
      8.   An organization or raffle manager to whom a Federal gambling device
stamp or a Federal wagering stamp has been issued by the Federal government for
the current tax period;
      9.   Any premises for which a Federal gambling device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax
period. (Ord. 1342, 4-24-2019)
3-7-5: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
   A.   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that game;
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle;
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle;
      4.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
      5.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18)
years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only
when accompanied by his or her parent or guardian. (Ord. 1342, 4-24-2019)
3-7-6: LIMITATIONS ON LICENSES:
   A.   A license authorizes the licensee to conduct raffles as defined in this
chapter. Each such license is valid for one raffle.
   B.   The President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
shall have thirty (30) days in which to approve or disapprove the license
applied for.
   C.   Any license issued by the Village may be revoked if it is determined
that the licensee has violated any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 1342, 4-24-
2019)
3-7-7: RECORDS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts for other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Illinois Department of Revenue, and
placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of
its raffles.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report at the
conclusion of the raffle, to its membership and to the Village of North
Barrington, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the
distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this chapter. Failure to
provide this information will prohibit the organization's ability to obtain
future raffle licenses.
   D.   Records required by this chapter shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 1342, 4-24-2019)
3-7-8: PENALTY:
Any organization, raffle manager or any other individuals directly involved in
the administration of the raffle who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1350, 8-28-2019)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
3-8-3: Public Nuisance Declared
3-8-4: Violations
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 1354, 11-20-2019)
3-8-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The following Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited in the
Village of North Barrington. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer,
allow to be operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the
Village of North Barrington of any of the following:
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center
   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter
(Ord. 1354, 11-20-2019)
3-8-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited Cannabis Business Establishment within the Village
in violation of the provisions of this Chapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies. (Ord. 1354,
11-20-2019)
3-8-4: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this Chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 4, Section 14-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1354, 11-20-2019)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Minimum Requirements; Interpretation; Conflicts
4-1-3: Enforcement And Inspections
4-1-4: Violation; Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
APPROVED: Approved by the Environmental and Health Commission.
BEDROOM: Any room, regardless of its designation by the owner or permit
applicant, which is suitable to be used regularly as a room for sleeping,
including, but not limited to, dens, studies, bonus rooms, libraries,
television rooms, sewing rooms and similar rooms (all of which are hereafter
referred to as "extra rooms") whether finished or unfinished, located on the
bedroom level of a multi-story residence which has access to a full bath which
is a room containing either a tub or a shower. Extra rooms located on the
nonbedroom level of a multi-story residence shall be considered "bedrooms" if
there is a bath on that level containing a shower or tub which is not part of a
master suite. Extra rooms in a single-story residence shall always be
considered "bedrooms" if there is access to a full bath. All such extra rooms
shall be considered as potential "bedrooms" and included as "bedrooms" for the
purposes of determining the required size of a septic seepage field of a
residence.
CURTAIN DRAIN: A pipe or pipes buried in the ground designed to intercept and
accept water which, were it not for such curtain drain, would travel onto or
into the seepage field of the individual sewage disposal system intended to be
protected by such pipe or pipes.
HEALTH COMMISSION: The Environmental and Health Commission of the Village of
North Barrington, or its authorized representative.
HEALTH OFFICER: The duly appointed and authorized representative of the
Environmental and Health Commission.
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A sewage disposal system other than a public
system which receives either human excreta or liquid waste, or both, from one
or more premises. Included within the scope of this definition are septic
tanks, soil absorption systems, chemical toilets and mechanical sewage
treatment systems.
PERMIT: A written permit issued by the Health Officer, permitting the
construction of an individual sewage disposal system under this title.
PERSON: Any institution, corporation, individual, partnership or other entity.
SEEPAGE PIT: A covered pit with open lining through which septic tank or
treated effluent may seep or leech into the surrounding porous soil.
SUMP PIT: A stone filled pit for absorption of storm water, drain tile, or
water softener effluent. "Sump pits" may not receive laundry waste. Only water
from footing tiles, humidifiers, water softeners, sump pumps, curtain drains
and storm lines shall be discharged into "sump pits". (1977 Code §
7-1-1; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
4-1-2: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; INTERPRETATION; CONFLICTS:
The provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for
the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare. It is not intended by this title to interfere with, abrogate, annul or
repeal any section or title of this code, any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation heretofore adopted which does not conflict with the provisions of
this title. (1977 Code §
7-3-3)
4-1-3: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Enforcement Officer: The Health Officer, or duly appointed and
authorized representative, is hereby designated as the enforcing officer of
this title.
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   Health Commission: The Environmental and Health Commission, or its
duly appointed and authorized representative, is hereby given specific power to
make inspections and, for that purpose, may enter buildings, structures and
premises in order to enforce the provisions of this title and, to that end,
shall make such orders, requirements, decisions and determinations as are
necessary with respect to this title. (1977 Code §
7-3-2; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
      2.   Health Officer:
         a.   Authority: The Health Officer, or duly appointed and authorized
representative, is hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections as
are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this title and the
rules and regulations promulgated herein.
         b.   Entry Powers: It shall be the obligation of the owner or occupant
of a property to give the Health Officer access to the property at reasonable
times for the purpose of making such inspections as are necessary to determine
compliance with the requirements of this title and the rules and regulations
promulgated herein. Inspections may include examination of the areas where any
portion of the individual sewage disposal system is located on the property,
probing such system, and entry to any building for the purpose of examining and
dye testing facilities connected to the system.
      3.   Notices Of Violation:
         a.   First Notice: Whenever the Health Officer shall determine, in the
course of his duties, that a violation of any provision of this title exists,
that officer shall deliver to the owner of the property a written notice of
violation informing the owner of the nature and location of the violation, the
Village code provision being violated, the potential penalty for continued
violation, and that a reinspection for compliance will occur on a specified
date which shall be not less than ten (10) days after the date of the notice;
provided, that if the Health Officer determines that the violation constitutes
such a present and substantial danger to public health, an earlier reinspection
date may be specified.
         b.   Second Notice: Upon reinspection, if the Health Officer finds
that the violation continues, that officer shall issue to the property owner a
second written notice of violation, attaching a copy of the first notice of
violation. The second notice of violation shall inform the property owner that
if compliance is not achieved by a second inspection to occur on a specified
date not less than ten (10) days after the date of the notice, the matter will
be referred to the Village Attorney for appropriate action. A copy of a second
notice of violation shall be sent to the Village President.
   C.   Violations Of Imminent Danger: Anything in this section
notwithstanding, if the Health Officer determines that a violation constitutes
an imminent danger to public health, the Health Officer may require compliance
in a shorter period of time than specified in this section, may order that the
owner cease use of sanitary facilities and, in addition, may refer the matter
to the Village Attorney to take other appropriate action, including seeking
injunctive relief in court. (1977 Code §
7-4-6; amd. 2004 Code)
4-1-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who maintains a nuisance as declared in this title or who fails to
comply with an order of the Environmental and Health Commission issued under
the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day that the violation exists. Each day that a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The cost of
any cleanup operation will be billed to the violator. (1977 Code §§
7-3-1, 7-4-10; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisances Prohibited; Abatement
4-2-2: Public Nuisances Enumerated
4-2-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED; ABATEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or maintain the existence of any
nuisance on any property under his control. The law enforcement agency and the
Health Officer are each hereby authorized to instruct any property owner to
abate any such nuisance existing in the Village, whether such nuisance is
specifically recognized by this code or not. Abatement procedures of section
7-9-3 of this code shall be followed. (1977 Code §
8-6-1; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
The following are declared to be public nuisances prejudicial to the public
health:
   A.   Unwholesome Food: All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to
the public.
   B.   Diseased Animals: All diseased animals running at large 1 .
   C.   Animal Carcasses: Carcasses of dead animals not buried or destroyed
within twenty four (24) hours after death.
   D.   Waste Accumulations: Accumulations of manure, rubbish, garbage, refuse
and human and industrial or noxious or offensive waste, except the normal
storage of small quantities of manure for agricultural or garden purposes.
   E.   Open Garbage Cans: Garbage cans which are not flytight.
   F.   Water Pollution 2 : The pollution of any well, cistern, spring,
underground water stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage or industrial
wastes or other substance harmful to human beings.
   G.   Sewage Discharges Into Natural Outlets Or Storm Sewers: Discharge of
any sanitary system, including any automatic washing machine discharge, into
open ditches or into any part of a storm sewer or drainage system.
   H.   Air Pollution From Noxious Materials: Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas
and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable quantities or the presence of any gas,
vapor, fume, smoke, dust or any other toxic substance on, in or emitted from
the equipment of any premises in quantities sufficient to be toxic, harmful or
injurious to the health of any employee or to any premises, occupant, or to any
other persons (except leaf burning and landscape waste) 3 .
   I.   Vermin Infestations: All infestations of vermin which may be involved
in the transmission of communicable disease.
   J.   Dangerous Buildings: Rental or lease of quarters for human habitation
which are declared unfit for human habitation by the Environmental and Health
Commission.
   K.   Building Construction Sites; No Sanitary Facilities: Failure of any
building contractor to provide an approved chemical toilet for the contractor's
workmen on new building construction sites. "Chemical toilet", which is
authorized for use only by building contractors at new building construction
sites, shall mean a toilet structure equipped with a watertight impervious
container which receives waste discharged through a hopper, seat, urinal or
similar device and into which container must be placed disinfecting or
deodorizing chemicals.
   L.   Other Conditions: All other acts, practices, conduct, businesses,
occupations, callings, trades, uses of property, and other things which are or
reasonably will be detrimental to the health of the inhabitants of the Village.
(1977 Code §
7-2-1; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-2-1C of this code.
2 2. See also section
  4-5-7 of this title.
3 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE REMOVAL 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Use Of Waste Removal Service Required
4-3-2: Recycling Program
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 4 of this code.
4-3-1: USE OF WASTE REMOVAL SERVICE REQUIRED:
   A.   Responsibility For Service: Every residential unit, office, commercial
establishment, industrial building and clubhouse shall utilize a commercial
refuse removal service to dispose of rubbish, garbage and waste.
   B.   Residential Service Contracted By Village: In the event that the
Village has designated an exclusive refuse removal contractor to serve
residential units, each residential unit in the Village shall utilize the
services of such contractor for rubbish, garbage and waste removal. (1977 Code
§
7-10-1)
   C.   Recycling Permitted: Nothing herein shall prevent any residential
homeowner from recycling recyclable items. (1977 Code §
7-10-1; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Authorized Waivers: The corporate authorities may waive the
requirements of this section in a specific case for good cause, upon the
written request of any person. (1977 Code §
7-10-2)
4-3-2: RECYCLING PROGRAM:
   A.   Program Established: There is hereby established a Villagewide
commercial and residential recycling program to be operated by each licensed
scavenger operating within the Village, and such licensed scavengers shall be
and are hereby required to provide for voluntary recycling services for their
respective residential customers and to provide for mandatory recycling
services for commercial customers, including the customer separation of certain
recyclable and compostable material (as designated by the Village from time to
time) from normal household and commercial refuse for placement in specially
designated containers and for separate collection of such recyclable and
compostable material by such scavenger. Such licensed scavengers operating
within the Village shall also invoice their respective commercial and
residential customers on a periodic basis for this recycling service;
residential customers shall be invoiced whether or not the particular
customer's household participates. Such scavengers shall provide their
respective customers with approved containers for recyclables and compostables
for charges to such customer approved in advance by the Village. Such approved
containers shall be used only for the purpose of storing such materials on site
and for the placement of those materials curbside or at the designated trash
collection pick up point on the designated collection day.
   B.   Mandatory Recycling For Commercial Establishments: Each commercial
establishment in the Village shall separate recyclable materials from other
refuse; no recyclable materials shall be placed in containers for other refuse,
and no other refuse shall be placed in containers for recyclables. (1977 Code §
5-5-5)
CHAPTER 4
BURNING
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Prohibitions
4-4-3: Times And Days Certain Burning Permitted; Notification Requirements
4-4-4: Safety Regulations; Public Nuisances
4-4-5: No Off Site Materials May Be Burned
4-4-6: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have the
meanings set forth herein:
BONFIRE: An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes not contained within
a structure.
CONSERVATION BURN: Open burning for recognized prairies, open spaces,
controlled burning for range or wildlife management practices or prevention or
control of disease or pests.
LANDSCAPE BURNS: Open burning of landscape materials to dispose of excess
landscape materials excluding leaves (branches and similar materials) in normal
household landscape maintenance.
LEAF BURNS: Open burning of leaves.
RECREATIONAL FIRES: An outdoor fire contained within a structure designed to
house a small fire for personal use. (Ord. 1131, 12-17-2007)
4-4-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to:
      1.   Have an open fire anywhere in the Village except in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Burn manure, garbage, food, plastic or food waste, or any materials
other than leaves, branches, and clean, unpainted wood pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Build, kindle, light or permit a fire on any public street or right
of way within the Village. (Ord. 1131, 12-17-2007)
4-4-3: TIMES AND DAYS CERTAIN BURNING PERMITTED; NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscape Burn: Landscape burns may be conducted only on the following
days and during the following times:
      1.   January through December any day between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. but not on any national holiday that falls on
those days.
   B.   Leaf Burn: Leaf burns may be conducted only on the following days and
during the following times:
      1.   April 1 to May 31 and October 1 to November 30: On each Thursday and
Sunday between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M., but not
on any national holiday that falls on those days.
   C.   Conservative Burns: Conservation burns are permitted subject to the
following:
      1.   The fire protection district that serves the property where the burn
is proposed shall be notified and give permission if the district has a permit
procedure.
      2.   The person or entity proposing the burn shall have received a valid
conservation burn permit from the Illinois environmental protection agency, if
applicable.
   D.   Recreational Fires: Recreational fires are allowed at any time subject
to the provisions of section
4-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 1131, 12-17-2007)
4-4-4: SAFETY REGULATIONS; PUBLIC NUISANCES:
All permitted open burning shall be subject to the following requirements:
   A.   A member of the Lake County sheriff's department or the Village Code
Enforcement Officer or his designee shall have power to order any fire to be
extinguished when, in the judgment of either of them, there is a substantial
danger of fire spread or if any of the safety provisions of this chapter are
not complied with. If a member of the Lake County sheriff's department or the
Village Code Enforcement Officer or his designee determines that the fire
constitutes a public nuisance, the fire shall be extinguished.
   B.   All fires shall be continuously attended by an adult of eighteen (18)
years of age or greater, and no fire shall be allowed that is reasonably
determined to pose danger to the safety of any building, structure, or nearby
trees.
   C.   There shall be a readily available source of sufficient water to
extinguish the fire.
   D.   All burning is prohibited when the surface wind speed exceeds ten (10)
miles per hour.
   E.   No fire shall be set or permitted within twenty five feet (25') of any
building or structure. (Ord. 1131, 12-17-2007)
4-4-5: NO OFF SITE MATERIALS MAY BE BURNED:
No person shall burn any materials which he or she has brought or allowed to be
brought onto his property from any other location. (Ord. 1131, 12-17-2007)
4-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation committing a first violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall be given a warning; for the second offense there shall be
a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00); for each subsequent offense, there
shall be a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 1131, 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 5
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS 1
SECTION:
4-5-1: Rules And Regulations; Purpose
4-5-2: Suitability For Private System
4-5-3: Permit To Construct Or Alter Private Systems
4-5-4: Site Development Permit
4-5-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Permits; Hearing
4-5-6: Percolation Tests
4-5-7: Discharge Of Sewage
4-5-8: Holding Tanks
4-5-9: Required Periodic Maintenance Of Private Sewage Disposal Systems
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-1-3B of this title for inspections.
4-5-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS; PURPOSE:
The Health Officer, in order to protect the health and safety of the people of
the Village and of the general public, is authorized to recommend to the
corporate authorities rules and regulations establishing standards governing
the design, construction, installation, maintenance, repair and operation of
individual sewage disposal systems. Such recommended rules and regulations, as
may be modified from time to time by the corporate authorities, shall become
effective upon adoption by resolution of the corporate authorities.
The Health Officer is hereby authorized, but not required, to issue a permit
for repairs to an existing system pursuant to this chapter, notwithstanding the
failure of an application to meet the requirements of this chapter and the
rules and regulations issued pursuant hereto, if the Health Officer determines,
in a written finding that the failure to meet such requirements:
   A.   Will not jeopardize public health and safety; and
   B.   Involves a variance of no more than ten percent (10%) of any area or
setback requirements of this chapter or otherwise involves a variance or
deviation which, in the reasonable discretion of the Health Officer, is deemed
to be minor in nature.
A copy of each such variance issued by the Health Officer promptly shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 1083, 1-23-2006)
   C.   When the variation from the strict requirements of this chapter which
is proposed is the only feasible solution to overcome a failing individual
sewage disposal system and the work being proposed does not result from any
addition to any structure on the property which increases the square footage of
such structure and the Health Officer certifies in writing that the solution
proposed is the only feasible solution to cure the failure of the individual
sewage disposal system and the solution will not create a health hazard. (Ord.
1126, 9-26-2007)
4-5-2: SUITABILITY FOR PRIVATE SYSTEM:
Suitability for a septic system will be determined by soil analysis and
percolation tests. (1977 Code §
7-4-1)
4-5-3: PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT OR ALTER PRIVATE SYSTEMS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or
make alterations to individual sewage disposal systems within the Village
unless he holds a valid septic permit issued by the Health Officer in the name
of such person for the specific construction or alteration proposed. The
application forms for permits are available at the Village Hall. All new septic
systems, major repairs or modifications to such systems shall be constructed
only after the issuance of a permit from the Village. The permit issued by the
Health Officer is in addition to any building permit which may be required and
must be obtained prior to application for the building permit. The permit for
construction of any sewage disposal component shall be considered upon
submittal of the appropriate application. No percolation tests are required for
repairs to existing septic systems. (1977 Code §
7-4-2; amd. Ord. 854, 11-20-2000; 2004 Code)
   B.   Plot Plan: With the septic permit application set forth in subsection A
of this section, the applicant shall furnish to the Village Health Officer six
(6) copies of the site plan with the septic layout included and as described.
   C.   Contents Of Application: The application shall contain a general
description of the work. The site plan must include the following information:
      1.   The scale of the plan, which shall be no smaller than one inch equal
to thirty feet (1" = 30'). (1977 Code §
7-4-2; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   For the construction, repair, or alteration of an individual sewage
disposal system, there shall be provided topographic information shown at one
foot (1') contours and extend approximately fifty feet (50') beyond the
property lines unless the Health Officer determines in writing that topographic
information is not required. NGVD88 datum (bench mark) is required on all plan
submittals and shall be referenced to the Illinois state plane coordinate
system.
The base plan which includes existing topographic information, physical
features and other information shall be computer generated to enhance accuracy.
An electronic copy and four (4) prints shall be made available upon request by
the Village.
Record drawings of completed construction are required for all new construction
and other site modifications which require grading plans. An electronic copy
(CD) in AutoCAD format on the same datum stated above and three (3) prints,
signed and sealed by a registered professional engineer, shall be provided to
the Village prior to final approval. (Ord. 1200, 2-23-2011)
      3.   A fixed bench mark which is not likely to be destroyed during
construction.
      4.   A proposed grading plan to include:
         a.   All contour line changes.
         b.   Top of foundation.
         c.   Water level of lakes, ponds, streams and other bodies of water.
         d.   Location and finished grade of driveway at several locations.
         e.   Portion of the property which is adjacent to the edge of the
street bordering the property unless waived in writing by the Health Officer.
         f.   Location, size and invert of proposed culverts.
         g.   Bottom of front ditch or swale at several points.
         h.   Curb and gutter elevation.
         i.   Rim and invert elevations of all storm sewers and structures.
         j.   All new swales.
      5.   House footprint with dimensions and setback measurement from
property lines.
      6.   The location of other proposed structures such as decks,
outbuildings, pools and other constructed improvements.
      7.   Number of bedrooms.
      8.   Easements.
      9.   Property dimensions.
      10.   Required setbacks.
      11.   Location and identification of any existing structures on the
property.
      12.   Proposed well location.
      13.   All wells within seventy five feet (75') of the property line.
      14.   Location of soil test holes.
      15.   Any existing trees of six inch (6") caliper or greater measured
four feet (4') above the existing ground surface.
      16.   All components of the septic system and the following information:
         a.   Invert of house sewer at foundation. The pipe must be laid a
minimum two percent (2%) slope;
         b.   Inverts of all pipes through the tank system and entering the
disposal system;
         c.   Inverts of header line and seepage tile at each box;
         d.   Invert of curtain drain at both ends;
         e.   Trench, curtain drain and lift station details;
         f.   Length and sizes of pipes and material type;
         g.   Location, extent, type and depth of any required fill;
         h.   Description of fill process; and
         i.   Other information as may be required by either the Building and
Zoning Officer or the Health Officer.
      17.   Said drawings shall have been prepared, certified and approved by a
professional engineer, registered in the state of Illinois, experienced in
sanitary engineering. (1977 Code §
7-4-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Guarantee Of Performance: Prior to the issuance of any permit herein,
the applicant shall furnish, for the benefit of the Village, a cash deposit, a
letter of credit or a performance bond in the amount of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) for each such individual sewage disposal system or major alteration
thereto. The condition of said deposit, letter of credit or bond shall be that
all requirements of this title and any other ordinances or state statutes shall
be complied with in connection with the installation of or major alteration to
said individual sewage disposal system. For new home construction, said bond
shall be valid until the later of: 1) one year from the date of issuance of
final occupancy permit for the building, or 2) one year after continuous
occupancy of the building served by the sewage disposal system, or 3) two (2)
years after the date of filing the completed septic permit application. For
septic repairs, the bond shall be held for one year from date of approval of
installation. The dates for the bond expiration may be extended by the Health
Officer if there are unforeseen circumstances. It will be the responsibility of
the applicant to renew the bond if appropriate or face additional charges.
   E.   Permit Fees: Permit fees for individual sewage disposal systems shall
be as follows:
 
Construction of sewage disposal systems
for newly constructed or enlarged homes $550.00
or major repairs
Minor repairs to an existing individual
sewage disposal system not covered by   150.00
the above
                                        The approved rate then charged to the
Hourly rate for review of revisions     Village by the consultant employed by
                                        the Village
Witnessing fee for percolation test     $125.00
Bond inspection fee                     200.00
 
(Ord. 1208, 7-27-2011)
4-5-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT 1 :
   A.   Permit Required; Exemption: A site development permit is required when
a property owner wants to import more than six inches (6") of fill. The
application shall meet all the requirements of subsections 4-5-3C, D and E of
this chapter. At grade systems and mound systems will not require such a
permit. (1977 Code §
7-4-4)
   B.   Permit Fee: The minimum permit fee to be paid with the site development
permit application is three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00). If a building
permit is subsequently applied for, a credit of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
will be given toward the building permit fee. (1977 Code §
7-4-4; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-8-5 of this code for property development cost provisions.
4-5-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMITS; HEARING:
The Health Officer shall issue or deny a permit within thirty (30) days after
application. If denied, the Health Officer shall notify the applicant in
writing stating the reasons for denial. The applicant may then file in the
office of the Village Clerk a written request for a hearing before the
Environmental and Health Commission which shall, within a reasonable time,
refer its recommendations to the corporate authorities for final decision,
which shall be by resolution. The applicant for a hearing shall submit such fee
with each petition for a hearing as shall be determined from time to time by
resolution of the Board of Trustees. (1977 Code §
7-4-5; amd. Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
4-5-6: PERCOLATION TESTS 1 :
   A.   When Required: Percolation tests shall be required only when the
Village Health Officer determines that the soil analysis indicates that the
portion of the parcel where the septic field is to be located has been filled
or otherwise significantly disturbed or where soil borings provide inconsistent
results. A minimum of six (6) soil borings will be required and the most
restrictive four (4) borings will be used for the design of the field type and
size. (Ord. 1291, 9-28-2016)
   B.   Percolation Rate: When the average drop in water level is greater than
one inch (1") in sixty (60) minutes over the prescribed four (4) hour test
period, all approved types of systems may be considered for approval if other
limiting soil conditions are met. If the average drop is between sixty one (61)
and one hundred twenty (120) minutes per inch, then only a mound type system
can be considered for the site. Rates over one hundred twenty (120) minutes per
inch will be deemed unsuitable for consideration for any conventional system
approved in this chapter. (1977 Code §
7-4-3; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See article B of this chapter.
4-5-7: DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE:
   A.   Prohibited Discharge Sites; Defective Systems; Environmental Accidents
1 : No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged untreated sewage, the
effluent from any septic tank, disposal field or mechanical treatment plant or
any industrial or business wastewater directly or indirectly to any stream,
wetland, lake, pond, ditch, drainage system, drainage pipe, stormwater sewer,
ground surface or abandoned well, or maintain or operate an individual sewage
disposal system in such manner that it becomes offensive, dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health. It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to clean up any damage done by environmental accidents. (1977
Code §
7-4-7)
   B.   Discharges To Treatment Works Or Sump Pits: All wastes from toilets,
sinks, showers, bathing tubs, washing machines, dishwashers, laundry tubs and
floor drains shall be directed into a wastewater treatment system approved by
the Village. Only water from footing tiles, humidifiers, water softeners, sump
pumps, curtain drains and storm lines shall be discharged into sump pits or
separate trench. (1977 Code §
7-4-7; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Discharge Violations: When any person discharges sewage or other waste,
whether treated or untreated, in violation of this code, the property owner
will be notified that a violation exists and must take immediate corrective
measures in compliance with this code. (1977 Code §
7-4-7)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 4-2-2F of this title.
4-5-8: HOLDING TANKS:
   A.   Holding Tanks Prohibited; Exceptions: The use of any holding tank for
the purpose of storing human excreta or liquid waste, or both, from any
premises, building or structure, if the holding tank is not connected to a
properly functioning and approved individual sewage disposal system, shall not
be permitted; except, if the Village Health Officer certifies in writing that
there is no practical alternative to the use of a holding tank, a holding tank
may be permitted for seasonal use for not more than five (5) months in any
calendar year by property in any club zoning district; provided, that prior to
the first use of such holding tank in any calendar year, there is filed with
the Village written evidence that such holding tank will be pumped on a regular
basis as needed by a licensed septic hauler, and provided further, that such
holding tank is not prohibited by valid state or federal law or regulations.
(1977 Code §
7-8-1)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
punishable as provided in section
4-1-4 of this title. (2004 Code)
4-5-9: REQUIRED PERIODIC MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   History, Purpose And Scope:
      1.   History: Historically, North Barrington has addressed failing
private sewage disposal systems ("septic systems") within the Village through
enforcement of current codes and regulations, during the abatement of
complaints, or by providing assistance or variances to those who have
experienced problems with their systems and have requested guidance.
      2.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to protect the public
health, safety, and natural environment by providing a program which
establishes required periodic maintenance of septic systems within the Village.
Failing septic systems are expensive to repair or replace, and poor maintenance
is a common cause of early system failures. The minimal amount of preventative
maintenance that septic systems require costs very little in comparison to the
cost to replace one that has failed. Many of these problems and failures could
have been prevented with proper maintenance.
The protection of the health of families, community and the environment is a
benefit to all when private sewage disposal systems are maintained properly.
When septic systems fail, inadequately treated household wastewater is released
into the environment. Contact with human waste that is not treated or is
inadequately treated can pose significant health risks, and untreated
wastewater from failing septic systems can contaminate nearby wells,
groundwater and drinking water sources. It is important that residents of the
Village educate themselves about what should and should not be disposed of
through a septic system and that their septic systems should be regularly
maintained and inspected.
Proper maintenance of a septic system protects the economic health of the
community. Failed septic systems can cause property values to decline. Building
permits cannot be issued or real estate sales can be delayed for properties
until the failed septic systems are repaired or replaced. Also, failed or
inadequately maintained septic systems can constitute a nuisance to nearby
properties and contribute to the pollution of local creeks, streams, rivers,
lakes, and shorelines that the community uses for commercial or recreational
activities.
      3.   Scope: All property within the Village, upon which a septic system
is installed, whether the system is in use or is dormant, is subject to the
provisions of this section.
   B.   Required Maintenance Of Private Septic Systems: The tank and field
lines of all septic systems within the Village shall be regularly serviced
every five (5) years as required herein.
Required maintenance or servicing of private septic systems shall include
pumping of the septic system's tank(s), cleaning filters, inspection of the
tank inlet and outlet tees and drainage field, and any additional necessary
services or repairs to the tank, drainage field lines, or mechanical components
of the system identified during the inspection. These services must be
performed by qualified septic system maintenance service personnel licensed by
the state of Illinois, including, but not limited to, licensed private sewage
pumping contractors. It is recognized that while such maintenance may indicate
that the system was in proper operating condition on the date of the inspection
and maintenance, there is no assurance that the system will remain in proper
operating condition for the duration of the operating permit.
   C.   Five Year Service Interval: All septic systems shall be serviced as
provided in subsection B of this section at least every five (5) years.
   D.   Notification And Reporting Requirements: Not less than ninety (90) days
prior to the date which is five (5) years after the prior maintenance as
provided for in subsection B of this section, a "notice for service due" shall
be mailed by the Village to the owner or occupant of such property at the
address to which real estate tax bills are sent. The owner or occupant shall
provide proof of inspection, service or pumping to the Village within thirty
(30) days after the expiration of the ninety (90) day notice period. A valid
copy, e-mail or facsimile transmissions will be accepted. Failure of the
Village to mail the notice does not release any owner or occupant of
responsibility to perform the required maintenance as described herein.
   E.   Permit Costs: The Village shall issue to the owner or occupant a
private sewage disposal system operating permit after completion of the
required maintenance upon payment of a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
permit issued. Notwithstanding that operating permits are issued for a term of
five (5) years, they shall expire upon a septic system malfunction or failure.
The operating permits will be reissued upon proof of maintenance service or
upon proof that malfunctioning system has been repaired.
   F.   Repairs: All repairs or alterations to an existing private septic
system within the Village must be performed in accordance with sections
4-5-1, "Rules And Regulations; Purpose", and
4-5-3, "Permit To Construct Or Alter Private Systems", of this chapter.
All required maintenance and repairs of private septic systems shall be at the
expense of the owner or occupant.
   G.   Provision For Exemption Or Waiver From This Requirement: Owners or
occupants whose sanitary sewers are connected to a sewer system owned by a
municipality or the Wynstone Property Owners' Association are exempt from the
requirements of this section.
Owners and occupants shall be exempt from the initial service requirements if
they are able to submit verification to the Village that their septic system
was pumped out on or after April 1, 2010, and the maintenance requirements of
this section shall begin on the date which is five (5) years after the date of
such service occurring after April 1, 2010. Further routine maintenance may not
be required until the subsequent due date as recorded by the Village, providing
all other provisions of this section are satisfied.
Property owners who have had maintenance performed on their systems before
their regularly scheduled interval and without a "notice for service due" from
the village, or who did not receive such notice and who would like to credit
the procedure to the village record by reporting this unscheduled service to
the village, may submit their documentation at any time.
A permit shall be issued at five (5) year intervals based on the documentation
of this maintenance service and the payment of the twenty five dollar ($25.00)
permit fee. (Ord. 1191-A, 8-25-2010)
   H.   Penalties: Failure of an owner/occupant to renew or have in effect a
current septic system permit shall be punishable by a fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and/or further legal action; provided that such fine shall be
reduced to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) if paid within fourteen (14)
days after being imposed. Each subsequent enforcement proceedings initiated by
reason of failure of the owner/occupant to remedy a prior failure to renew or
have in effect a current septic system permit shall be punishable by a fine of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and/or further legal action. (Ord. 1249,
1-22-2014)
CHAPTER 5
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
4-5A-1: Definitions
4-5A-2: Minimum Standards
4-5A-3: Septic Tank Capacity And Design
4-5A-4: Septic Tank Construction And Installation
4-5A-5: Sewer Header Line Construction
4-5A-6: Subsurface Seepage Requirements
4-5A-7: Private Disposal System Standards
4-5A-8: Aerobic Treatment Plants
4-5A-9: Covering Over Septic Systems
4-5A-10: Curtain Drains
4-5A-11: Improvements To Structures
4-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Words Defined: As used in this article, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    AT GRADE SYSTEM: One designed in accordance with "Wisconsin At-Grade Soil
Absorption System, Siting, Design and Construction Manual, Small Scale Waste
Management Project", University of Wisconsin, Madison, January 1990 (these
systems are identified as "type 4" systems in the Lake County code).
   LOW PRESSURE PIPE TRENCH SYSTEM: One designed in accordance with "Design and
Installation of Low Pressure Pipe Waste Treatment Systems", University of North
Carolina Sea Grant College Publication, University of North Carolina 56-82-03,
May 1982 (these systems are identified as "type 3" systems in the Lake County
code).
   MOUND SYSTEM: One designed in accordance with the "Wisconsin Mound Soil
Absorption System, Siting, Design and Construction Manual", Small Scale Waste
Management Project, University of Wisconsin, Madison, January 1990 (these
systems are identified as "type 5" systems in the Lake County code). A "mound
system" may be referred to in this article as an "aboveground system".
   NONPRESSURE SUBSURFACE TRENCH SYSTEM: One designed in accordance with
parameters set forth in this code (these systems are identified as "types 1 and
2" systems in the Lake County code).
   SUBSURFACE TRENCH SYSTEM: Shall consist of underground trenches and drop
boxes.
   B.   Exceptions To Design Criteria: Exceptions to design criteria of systems
defined in subsection A of this section, definitions of "at grade system, "low
pressure pipe trench system" and "mound system", are described in this article.
(1977 Code §
7-5-1)
4-5A-2: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
Every individual sewage disposal system shall be designed, constructed and
utilized in accordance with the minimum standards as specified in the
regulations of this article. (1977 Code §
7-5-2)
4-5A-3: SEPTIC TANK CAPACITY AND DESIGN:
   A.   Minimum Capacity: Minimum capacity below outlet   500 gallons
   B.   Single-Family Residential Units: Minimum capacities below outlet for
septic tanks serving new single-family residential units will be as follows:
 
Number Of Minimum Liquid
Bedrooms  Capacity Of Tank
          
3 or less 1,500
4         2,000
5         2,200
6         2,600
7 or more 3,000
 
   C.   Buildings Other Than Residences: For buildings other than residences,
the septic tank capacity below the outlet for the following flow estimates
shall be as follows:
 
Flow Estimates In Gallons Per Day    Septic Capacity In Gallons
Up to 667                            At least 1,000
Greater than 667 and less than 1,500 At least 11/2 times the estimated daily
                                     sewage flow
Greater than 1,500                   1,125 plus 75 percent of the daily sewage
                                     flow
 
   D.   Tank Design: All tanks, except when used in series, shall have two (2)
compartments designed with at least one-half (1/2) but not more than two-thirds
(2/3) of the total capacity provided in the first compartment. When the total
capacity exceeds one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons, two (2) tanks or
more in series may be installed with at least one-half (1/2) but no more than
two-thirds (2/3) of the total capacity provided in the first tank. (1977 Code §
7-5-3)
4-5A-4: SEPTIC TANK CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   Approval Required: All septic tanks must be approved by the Health
Officer. In granting such approval, the Health Officer's determination will be
based upon the requirements of the private sewage disposal licensing act 1  and
code 2  and the specific requirements set forth in this section.
   B.   Construction Requirements:
      1.   Manhole Cover: If the tank cover is cast monolithically with sides
of the tank, a manhole cover with a minimum diameter of twelve inches (12")
shall be provided; this manhole may be used as an inspection port if it is
located over the inlet or outlet.
      2.   In Place Construction: Any tank constructed in place must meet the
requirements of this article, Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act
and the private sewage disposal code. (1977 Code §
7-5-4)
      3.   Baffles: Baffles are required on the inlets and outlets and an
approved baffling system is required between compartments. See the state
private sewage disposal licensing act and code for construction requirements.
(1977 Code §
7-5-4; amd. 2004 Code)
      4.   Grease Traps: Grease traps are not permitted for residential use.
Grease traps, if used for industrial or commercial use, shall have a liquid
capacity of at least five hundred (500) gallons, shall be constructed to permit
inspection and servicing, and shall be of an approved design and capacity.
   C.   Installation:
      1.   If the top of the tank is more than eight inches (8") below the
ground surface, watertight risers to the ground surface level shall be
installed over the ports. Risers shall have a minimum diameter of eight inches
(8").
      2.   If the top of the tank is more than twenty four inches (24") below
the ground surface, all joints, covers and inspection ports must be watertight.
(1977 Code §
7-5-4)
      3.   New septic tanks and replacements within five feet (5') of or in
flood areas must have the outlet at or above the base flood elevation of
record. (1977 Code §
7-5-4; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 225/7.
4-5A-5: SEWER HEADER LINE CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   All piping located five feet (5') from the building foundation, used to
convey wastewater to an individual sewage disposal system, shall be considered
a part of that system. (1977 Code §
7-5-5)
   B.   All piping located five feet (5') from the building foundation to the
septic tank shall be of cast iron or plastic as described in the list of
approved plastic pipe for the individual sewage disposal system uses in the
private sewage disposal licensing act and the private sewage disposal code.
Cast iron piping cannot be used after the tank or between tanks in series, due
to corrosion. (1977 Code §
7-5-5; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Plastic pipe or fittings utilized in individual sewage disposal systems
shall be manufactured from the list of approved materials, as specified in the
private sewage disposal licensing act and the private sewage disposal code.
   D.   All lines shall have watertight joints and be installed according to
the manufacturer's directions.
   E.   Sewer lines from any dwelling or building to a septic tank which are
located under driveways or other structures shall be constructed of schedule 40
PVC or stronger pipe and may, upon direction of the Health Officer, be
encapsulated within a second pipe of equal strength to improve insulation
against freezing. Additional insulation may be necessary.
   F.   No sewer line shall be less than four inches (4") in diameter. The
slope shall be a minimum of one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot between the
building and tank. (1977 Code §
7-5-5)
4-5A-6: SUBSURFACE SEEPAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Soil Evaluation: All proposed systems shall be evaluated based on soil
analyses performed by qualified soil scientists and by percolation tests.
   B.   Size Of Systems: The size of all trench systems and treatment areas
shall be based on the number of bedrooms in a residence as follows:
      1.   Minimum Treatment Area:
         a.   Subsurface trench systems shall be designed with a minimum of
five hundred (500) square feet of trench per bedroom with a minimum field size
of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of trench.
         b.   All other systems shall have a minimum treatment area which meets
the requirements of the Lake County health and sanitation ordinance of the Lake
County code but shall provide for a treatment area of not less than that
required by the Lake County code for a three (3) bedroom house.
      2.   Responsibility For Tests: Notwithstanding the results of soil and
percolation tests, the licensed private sewage contractor shall be responsible
for the proper construction and initial functioning of the treatment systems.
(1977 Code §
7-5-6)
      3.   Percolation Test Results: Written percolation test results pursuant
to the requirements of section
4-5-6 of this chapter shall be provided to the Health Officer. (Ord. 854, 11-
20-2000)
   C.   Approved Treatment Systems:
      1.   Approved Systems:
         a.   A subsurface trench system is the treatment process approved in
the Village.
         b.   An at grade system shall be used in lieu of subsurface trench
systems when construction of an at grade system preserves significant trees,
provides extra protection of the water table or adds aesthetically to the
landscape.
         c.   Mound systems are to be used only when at grade systems are not
feasible due to depth of water table and soil types.
         d.   Whether a subsurface trench system alone will be utilized shall
be based on soils, location of water table and percolation rates.
         e.   A class I aeration system is required:
            (1)   For all at grade systems and mound systems; or
            (2)   When percolation tests performed at a minimum of eighteen
inches (18") below natural grade yield results less than one inch (1") in sixty
(60) minutes; or
            (3)   In all soils identified as Beecher, Elliotts and similar type
soils; or
            (4)   When the seasonal high water table is less than thirty inches
(30") below the natural ground surface; or
            (5)   When the observed water table is less than thirty inches
(30") below the natural ground surface; or
            (6)   When the septic system is within one hundred feet (100') of
high water elevations of detention ponds, lakes and streams.
      2.   Alternate Systems:
         a.   If the above requirements for the approved systems cannot be met,
at the request of the property owner, the Environmental and Health Commission
will consider submittals on other system proposals which have been reviewed by
the Health Officer and have been approved by the state.
         b.   Upon consideration of an alternative system request, the
Environmental and Health Commission will make a recommendation to the corporate
authorities. Any approval by the corporate authorities shall be by resolution.
If an alternative system is found to be acceptable, the Health Officer will
recommend design parameters to be used based on each individual situation.
         c.   The owner's design engineer must consider drainage, aesthetics
and final landscaping when designing an aboveground system. The design of an
aboveground system shall be subject to approval of the Village Health Officer.
Prior to issuance of a permit for an aboveground system, the property owner
shall sign and file with the Village an agreement that the aboveground system
will be built and maintained in accordance with the approved design.
   D.   Reserve Treatment System: All septic system plans shall include an area
for a reserve treatment system which shall be available in the event of failure
of the original or primary treatment system. The area set aside for the reserve
treatment system shall meet all the requirements of the area provided for the
primary treatment system, including size and acceptable percolation test
performance pursuant to this title. (1977 Code §
7-5-6; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
4-5A-7: PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM STANDARDS:
   A.   Protection Of Site: The area proposed for the wastewater disposal
system and expansion area shall be fenced with a snow fence, two by fours (2 x
4) or equivalent, before a construction permit is issued, and such fencing
shall be maintained until an occupancy permit is issued for the structure to be
served by the wastewater disposal system if there is new construction or
remodeling. No vehicular traffic shall drive over the area enclosed by the
fence, and vehicular traffic is prohibited in the immediate area except for
vehicles necessary for the installation of the wastewater disposal system which
shall be under the supervision of the licensed septic contractor. If the system
area is disturbed, the permit may be revoked by the Health Officer, and
additional soil evaluations, including bulk density, may be required to
determine suitability. A new permit application and fees will be required.
   B.   Site Approval; Activities To Cease: After a proposed system has been
approved, the area in which it is to be installed shall not be cut, or filled,
or disturbed in any way, unless alterations are specified on the plan approved
by the Health Officer. Prior to approval for construction by the Health
Officer, the well site and the soil absorption system shall be staked out.
   C.   Location Of Structures: Alterations or additions to any structures or
the erection of any new structure shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from
the primary and future (reserve) soil absorption field areas. Patios,
driveways, and other similar installations shall be a minimum of ten feet (10')
from the primary and future (reserve) soil absorption field.
   D.   Location Of Utilities:
      1.   Wells And Other Water Sources: Drinking water and sprinkler lines
and pools shall not be installed or permitted within twenty five feet (25') of
the soil absorption field area or future expansion area.
      2.   Utility Lines: Utility service lines to the house shall not be
installed within five feet (5') of a soil absorption field area or future
expansion area.
   E.   Subsurface Trench System Requirements:
      1.   Trenching Specifications:
         a.   The minimum width of trench shall be twenty four inches (24");
the maximum width of trench shall be thirty six inches (36").
         b.   The bottom of the trenches shall be level. Trenches shall not be
excavated when the soil is of such wetness as to smear easily or when frost
depth exceeds eight inches (8").
         c.   Minimum distance between trenches (center to center) is three (3)
times the trench width, but in no case less than six feet (6').
         d.   Maximum length of each soil absorption trench from point of
distribution shall be one hundred feet (100').
      2.   Serial Distribution, Distribution Box And Diversion Devices:
         a.   Serial distribution systems shall be used where the difference in
elevation in the soil absorption area exceeds six inches (6"). All material
used to construct these types of distribution systems must be approved by the
Health Officer; distribution and drop boxes shall be constructed of plastic or
other approved material.
         b.   The lines of distribution box system must be tied together. The
following are details from the state code:
            (1)   The bottom of each trench and its distribution line shall be
level.
            (2)   There shall be a minimum of six inches (6") of earth backfill
over the bedding material in the trenches.
            (3)   The trench shall follow the ground surface contours so that
variation in trench depth will be minimized.
            (4)   There shall be a minimum of five feet (5') of undisturbed
earth between the septic tank and the nearest trench.
            (5)   Adjacent trenches shall be connected with a relief line or a
drop box arranged so that each trench is completely filled to the full depth of
the gravel before effluent flows to the succeeding trench.
            (6)   The relief lines connecting the trenches shall have
watertight joints and direct connections to the distribution lines in adjacent
trenches. Tight joint "Ts" and forty five degree (45°) ells, or a drop box
arrangement shall be used to connect adjacent trenches.
            (7)   Where the relief pipe trench connects with the higher trench,
it shall not be deeper than the top of the gravel in the higher trench. Relief
lines shall rest on undisturbed earth, and the backfill shall be carefully
tamped.
            (8)   The invert of the first relief line shall be at least one
inch (1") lower than the invert of the septic tank or aerobic treatment plant
outlet.
      3.   Pipe In The Soil Absorption System: Minimum inside diameter of pipe
shall be one and one-fourth inch (11/4") for low pressure systems and four
inches (4") for nonpressure systems. Perforated pipe designed for soil
absorption system use shall be as approved by the Illinois private sewage
disposal act and code and by the Health Officer.
      4.   Trench Fill Material:
         a.   The minimum depth of stone under perforated pipe shall be six
inches (6"). The minimum depth of stone over perforated pipe shall be two
inches (2").
         b.   Trench fill material - stone - shall be washed so as to be free
of dust, sand, clay or fine material. Stone may vary from one-half inch (1/2")
to one and one-half inches (11/2") in size. Stone shall be uniformly spread and
level with, or lower than, the bottom of the tank outlet and must also be lower
than the drop box outlet throughout the length of each line.
         c.   Stone shall be covered with approved polypropylene, approved
polyester, or a minimum of six inches (6") of straw or other material approved
by the Health Officer. The trench shall be backfilled with a minimum of six
inches (6") of topsoil, with the maximum depth dependent on soil type.
      5.   Backfill:
         a.   All trenches shall be backfilled as soon as possible after
inspection and approval by the Health Officer.
         b.   No portion of the system shall be covered before it has been
inspected and approved in writing by the Health Officer.
         c.   Frozen or wet (so as to smear) material may not be used for
backfilling.
         d.   Rough and finished grading of the soil absorption system shall be
so designed and executed with respect to elevation and slope so that the
surface drainage is off the area. A minimum of one foot (1') per one hundred
feet (100') of slope must be maintained over the septic field area. Mounding
soil above the absorption system area may be required to shed rainfall.
         e.   All systems must have final grading and seeding or be mulched
with straw or other acceptable material prior to occupancy and final approval.
Only hand held equipment may be used on the septic field area after system has
been installed.
      6.   Minimum Distances: The locations of all components of an individual
sewage disposal system shall comply with the minimum distances listed in the
following chart:
LOCATION OF COMPONENTS OF AND
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM1
DISTANCE FROM
 Wells     Water      Surface                                Road
 Component SupplyLine Waters                     Surface     Easement
 Or Part   Under      And/Or                     Tiles Field Curtain
 Of        Pressure   Wetlands Dwelling Property Drain       DrainsOpen Drainage
 Suction   And        Or Other          Line     (Horizontal Ditches    UtilityEasement
 System 1  Inground   Body Of                    Distance)   Road Cuts
 Lines     Swimming   Water                                  Edge Of
           Pool                                              Fill
                        Wells     Water      Surface                                Road
                        Component SupplyLine Waters                     Surface     Easement
                        Or Part   Under      And/Or                     Tiles Field Curtain
                        Of        Pressure   Wetlands Dwelling Property Drain       DrainsOpen Drainage
                        Suction   And        Or Other          Line     (Horizontal Ditches    UtilityEasement
                        System 1  Inground   Body Of                    Distance)   Road Cuts
                        Lines     Swimming   Water                                  Edge Of
                                  Pool                                              Fill
                        feet      feet       feet     feet     feet     feet        feet       feet
Building sewer2         50        25         25       -        -        -           10         10
Septic tank or\ aerobic 50        10         504      10       25       10          10         10
treatmentplant
Distribution box or     75        25         504      20       25       15          10         10
drop box
Soil absorption         75        25         504      20       25       15          10         10
Sump pit3               75        10         10       20       25
Soil absorp-tion for
re-pairs or re-
placement of an
existingfield where the 75        25         50       20       10       15          10         5
health officer findsno
otherreasonablyfeasible
al ternative
1. These distances have been determined for use in clay and loam soils only. The minimum required for use in
sand and gravel with less than five percent (5%) silt or clay, and where well casings do not pass through a
glacial silty clay or silty clay loam till subsoil, shall be determined for the proposed private sewage
disposal system and approved by the Health Officer.
2. The building sewer may be located to within ten feet (10') of a well or protected suction line under system
pressure from the pump to the well when cast iron pipe with mechanical joints or schedule 40 PVC pipe with
watertight joints is used for the building sewer.
3. Sump pit must be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from nearest point of septic absorption
field.
4. Where the 100-year floodplain elevation has been established, these distances shall be a minimum of twenty
five feet (25') from such 100-year floodplain elevation.
 
(1977 Code §
7-5-7; amd. 2004 Code)
4-5A-8: AEROBIC TREATMENT PLANTS:
   A.   Compliance With National Standards: All aerobic treatment plants
hereafter installed shall comply with the requirements of the National
Sanitation Foundation (NSF) standard number 40, individual aerobic wastewater
treatment, May 1983, or that standard as it may be amended from time to time,
and shall bear the NSF seal.
   B.   Class I Aerobic Treatment Plants:
      1.   Aerobic treatment plants listed by NSF for class I effluent (BOD5,
20 mg/l and suspended solids, 40 mg/l) shall discharge to a subsurface seepage
field designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of this
article.
      2.   Class I aerobic treatment systems, as described herein, shall be
required when a percolation test performed in original soil yields results
greater than sixty (60) minutes per inch. An aerator may be required on
alternative systems if they are permitted. (1977 Code §
7-5-8)
      3.   Aerobic treatment plants which are listed by NSF as class I shall be
sized as follows:
Bedrooms Minimum Rated Treatment
         Capacity/Gallons
Bedrooms Minimum Rated Treatment
         Capacity/Gallons
         
3        500
4        600
5        750
6        900
7        1,050
8        1,200
9        1,350
10       1,500
 
(1977 Code §
7-5-8; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Chlorinators And Sand Filters: Any design which requires an aerobic
treatment plant may require, at the discretion of the Health Officer, a
chlorinator and sand filter system in addition to the subsurface seepage system
as determined by the Health Officer.
   D.   Installation: All components of aerobic treatment plants shall be
installed at the time of the original installation.
   E.   Access: Access to an aerobic treatment plant shall be adequate to allow
maintenance and service of all components within such plant.
   F.   Maintenance: The property owner at all times must have a maintenance
agreement in effect for the aerobic unit to cover such things as filter
replacement and general condition. A copy of the current maintenance agreement
must be on file with the Village, or the owner may be subject to penalties.
(1977 Code §
7-5-8)
4-5A-9: COVERING OVER SEPTIC SYSTEMS:
The minimum required covering over the tile in a septic system shall not be
reduced by any landscaping after the septic system contractor has completed his
work on the septic system. When landscaping or grading is to be done, it must
be accomplished without affecting the minimum standards of this title for
covering over a septic system. (1977 Code §
7-5-9)
4-5A-10: CURTAIN DRAINS:
   A.   Purpose: Curtain drains shall divert such water that otherwise would
travel onto or into the seepage field of the individual sewage disposal system.
Such curtain drains shall divert such water to an elevation lower than such
seepage field. Curtain drains shall not discharge into a ditch.
   B.   Curtain Drain Required: Upon review by the Health Officer, a curtain
drain may be required when septic systems are placed in slow permeability type
soils or when seasonal high water table is less than forty eight inches (48")
from ground surface.
   C.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   Curtain drains shall be installed in a trench twelve inches (12") in
width, said trench to be filled with gravel to within four inches (4") of the
existing grade, and the top four inches (4") shall be filled with porous
topsoil.
      2.   The curtain drain shall be installed into the slowly permeable
subsoil.
      3.   The curtain drainpipe shall be constructed with PVC material, not
less than four inches (4") in diameter, and shall be separate from any other
drains. The pipe shall be perforated when located above and below parallel to
the trenches and solid when running alongside and perpendicular to the septic
trenches. (1977 Code § 7-5-10)
4-5A-11: IMPROVEMENTS TO STRUCTURES:
   A.   Bedroom Additions 1 : Whenever any existing residence is enlarged to
add one or more bedrooms, or other rooms suitable to be used regularly as
bedrooms, all requirements of this title applicable to new residences relative
to individual sewage disposal systems shall be fully complied with unless the
Village Board of Trustees, after a hearing before the Environmental and Health
Commission, concludes that such requirement should be waived in a particular
case. (1977 Code § 7-5-11; amd. Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
   B.   Other Improvements:
      1.   Septic Tank Alterations: Except as hereinafter provided, whenever
the relocation of a septic tank is required by reason of alterations or an
addition to a building, only the tank system shall be required to be brought
into compliance with the then current provisions of the Village code. If the
alteration or addition to a building affects any other part of the septic
system, an evaluation report must be submitted from a licensed sanitarian
describing the condition of the existing septic field. If it is determined by
such evaluation report or by the Village Health Officer that the existing
septic field is in such condition as to not function properly, then the entire
septic system shall be brought into compliance with current Village code
provisions and regulations.
When a septic alteration is required by reason of a failing septic system, the
existing system shall be brought into compliance with existing Village code
provisions and regulations to the extent feasible, taking into consideration
existing lot size, topography and other pertinent features. (Ord. 1051, 11-22-
2004)
      2.   Plat Of Survey: A copy of the most recent plat of survey showing the
size and location of the existing septic system and location of replacement
field and the well location shall be submitted.
      3.   Infringement Upon Existing Fields: If the improvement infringes in
any existing septic field or in the replacement field area, the following may
be required:
         a.   New soil borings to determine alternate septic field location.
         b.   Percolation tests.
         c.   New septic drawing.
         d.   Septic permit application. (1977 Code § 7-5-12; amd. 2004 Code)
      4.   Approval Or Denial Of Improvement Requests: Upon review of the above
information, a determination will be made to determine compliance with this
chapter. If the review indicates noncompliance with this chapter, a denial
letter will be forwarded to the Environmental and Health Commission. The
applicant may then choose to apply for a variance as outlined in this chapter.
(1977 Code § 7-5-12; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-
2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-1-1 of this title for definition of "bedroom".
ARTICLE B. PERCOLATION TESTS 1
SECTION:
4-5B-1: Percolation Test Standards
4-5B-2: Time Limit For Tests
4-5B-3: Test Hole Specifications
4-5B-4: Preparation And Procedure
4-5B-5: Notice Of Test; Reports
4-5B-6: Scheduling And Fees
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 4-5-6 and
  4-5A-6 of this chapter.
4-5B-1: PERCOLATION TEST STANDARDS:
Percolation tests shall be performed in accordance with this chapter. (1977
Code §
7-6-1)
4-5B-2: TIME LIMIT FOR TESTS:
Percolation tests must be performed within eighteen (18) months prior to
submittal of an application for a building or septic system permit. (1977 Code
§ 7-6-8)
4-5B-3: TEST HOLE SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Number And Location: Six (6) or more tests shall be made in separate
test holes spaced uniformly over the proposed absorption field site and reserve
field site as required by section
4-5A-6 of this title. (1977 Code §
7-6-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Depth Of Tests:
      1.   Tests shall be conducted at a depth which is within four inches (4")
of the anticipated bottom of the designed trench depth unless otherwise
approved by the Health Officer; provided, that the maximum depth of the hole
for percolation tests shall be thirty six inches (36") and the minimum test
depth shall be twelve inches (12") in natural soil where no fill has been
imported to the site and six inches (6") into natural soils below filled areas.
      2.   It is recommended, but not required, that tests be at a depth of
twelve inches (12") when it is expected that fill is to be imported prior to
construction. (1977 Code §
7-4-3)
   C.   Type Of Test Hole: A hole shall be dug or bored with a diameter of
between four (4) and twelve inches (12") and to a depth of the proposed
absorption trench (a minimum of 12 inches). (1977 Code §
7-6-3; amd. 2004 Code)
4-5B-4: PREPARATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Preparation Of Test Hole Area: The bottom and sides of the hole shall
be scratched with a knife blade or sharp pointed instrument in order to remove
any smeared soil surfaces and to provide a natural soil interface into which
water may percolate. All loose material shall be removed from the hole.
   B.   Test Procedure: On the day prior to the test, the holes shall be filled
with clear water and kept full for at least four (4) hours on the day of the
test; twelve inches (12") of water shall be kept in the holes for the first two
(2) hours of the four (4) hours prior to commencing the test, and during the
next two (2) hours, the water should be allowed to drop to six inches (6"). Six
inches (6") of water shall be kept in the holes until test time. The test shall
begin with six inches (6") of water in the holes. After one hour, the drop in
water level shall be measured and recorded. The holes shall be refilled to six
inches (6") and repeated for a total of three (3) 1-hour readings followed by
two (2) half hour readings. (1977 Code § 7-6-4)
4-5B-5: NOTICE OF TEST; REPORTS:
   A.   Notice Of Test; Presence Of Village Official Required: The Health
Officer or a designated representative shall be notified in advance of the
conducting of soil absorption tests. Tests conducted without prior notice being
given the Health Officer, as described above, will not be recognized. The test
must be witnessed by the Health Officer or designated representatives if it is
to be used for design purposes and permit request. (1977 Code § 7-6-5)
   B.   Reports And Results: Absorption test results shall be reported on the
form provided by the Health Officer. (1977 Code § 7-6-6)
4-5B-6: SCHEDULING AND FEES:
   A.   Fee: Prior to scheduling a witnessed percolation test, the applicant
shall pay to the Village a fee as set out in subsection 4-5-3E of this chapter.
The Village will issue a receipt and give notice of payment to the person
designated by the Village to witness the test.
   B.   Tests To Be Scheduled: The test must be scheduled by twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon at least two (2) business days prior to the first test date. For
example, if the applicant wants to start the test on Thursday, a call for
scheduling must be made not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
preceding Tuesday.
   C.   Cancelled Tests; Refund Or Credit:
      1.   Full refunds or credits will be given for a test cancelled twenty
four (24) hours or more prior to scheduled start of the test.
      2.   If the test is cancelled less than twenty four (24) hours from the
scheduled first day of the test, the entire witnessing fee shall be forfeited
unless the Village determines that cancellation was for reasons beyond the
control of the applicant, such as unexpected adverse weather conditions.
   D.   Test Witness: Applicants should contact the Village Hall for names and
phone numbers of Village representatives who will be available to witness the
tests. (1977 Code § 7-6-7; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE C. SOIL SUITABILITY
SECTION:
4-5C-1: Soils Investigation Procedure
4-5C-2: Unauthorized Change Of Contour
4-5C-1: SOILS INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE:
Soils investigation shall be performed and reported as required by the Lake
County Health Department. (2004 Code)
4-5C-2: UNAUTHORIZED CHANGE OF CONTOUR:
Should the contour of the original ground be changed by filling, compacting or
excavating to a degree that would significantly alter the original soil
absorption rate, a new soil evaluation will determine the extent of the damage.
All permits issued before the unauthorized change of contour shall be void, and
a new application request must be submitted along with appropriate fees. (1977
Code §
7-7-2)
CHAPTER 6
SUMP PUMPS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Sump Pump Pipe Terminus
4-6-1: SUMP PUMP PIPE TERMINUS:
Effective April 1, 2018, based upon site conditions, the termination of all
sump pump pipes must be protected with an erosion control measure (such as a
lined apron, infiltration trench or an infiltration pit) to be approved by the
Village Health Officer or Village Engineer. An air gap shall be installed in
the drainage pipe at the discharge point at the building. The infiltration pit
shall be constructed with Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT)
gradation for Coarse Aggregate - 7 (CA-7), with at least eighteen inches (18")
deep, with a minimum surface area of one hundred (100) square feet, and a
minimum of six inches (6") of topsoil cover and vegetative planting. The
discharge termination shall be located at least twenty five feet (25') from any
property line unless this requirement is waived by the Village Health Officer
or Village Engineer for good cause and the Village Health Officer or Village
Engineer finds that there are adequate safeguards to protect adjoining property
from drainage discharge. The Village Health Officer or Village Engineer may, in
their sole discretion, make exceptions or alterations to any and all
requirements of this section for an individual location, to the extent that the
exception or alteration avoids a commercial impracticability and otherwise does
not pose a risk to the health, safety, and welfare of persons or property in
the Village. (Ord. 1319, 3-21-2018)
CHAPTER 7
ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS TO STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-7-1: Purpose/Intent
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: Responsibility For Administration
4-7-4: Applicability
4-7-5: Ultimate Responsibility
4-7-6: Discharge Prohibitions
4-7-7: Suspension Of MSSSS Access
4-7-8: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
4-7-9: Monitoring Of Discharges
4-7-10: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices
4-7-11: Watercourse Protection
4-7-12: Notification Of Spills
4-7-13: Notice Of Violation
4-7-14: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
4-7-15: Enforcement
4-7-16: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
4-7-17: Injunctive Relief
4-7-18: Compensatory Action
4-7-19: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
4-7-20: Criminal Prosecution
4-7-21: Remedies Not Exclusive
4-7-1: PURPOSE/INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the Village of North Barrington through the
regulation of nonstormwater discharges to the stormwater drainage system to the
maximum extent practicable, as required by federal and state law. This chapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
Village's municipal separate storm sewer system (MSSSS) in order to comply with
requirements of the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit program. The objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To regulate the discharge of pollutants to the MSSSS.
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MSSSS.
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Employees or designees of the municipal agency
designated to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, stormwater pollution prevention
and educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices intended to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or
indirectly to stormwater, receiving waters, and stormwater drainage systems.
BMPs also include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to
control site runoff, spillage, leaks, sludge and wastewater disposal, and
drainage from raw materials storage areas.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to an NPDES construction site
activities permit. Currently, these activities include construction projects
resulting in a land disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include,
but are not limited to, clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating, and
demolition.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the
stormwater drainage system, except as exempted in section
4-7-6 of this chapter.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Either of the following:
A. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows
an illegal discharge to enter the stormwater drainage system, including, but
not limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharges such
as sewage, processed wastewater, and wash water, to enter the stormwater
drainage system and any connections to the stormwater drainage system from
indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had
been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement
agency; or
B. Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use
to the stormwater drainage system which has not been documented in plans, maps,
or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to an NPDES industrial activities
permit as defined in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(14).
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MSSSS): The system of stormwater
drainage facilities, including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems,
municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels and
storm drains, owned and operated by the Village and used for collecting and/or
conveying stormwater. The MSSSS is not used for collecting and/or conveying
sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the United States environmental protection agency
("EPA") (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC section
1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group or general
areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the stormwater drainage system that
is not composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, solvents, oil and other
automotive fluids, nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes, yard wastes, refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances,
accumulations that may cause or contribute to pollution, floatables,
pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, hazardous substances and wastes, sewage,
fecal coliform and pathogens, dissolved and particulate metals, animal wastes,
wastes and residues that result from construction activity, and noxious or
offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips located
on a public or private road or right of way.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
resulting from any form of natural precipitation.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: The facilities by which stormwater is collected
and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, sidewalks, roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, receiving waters, and
stormwater drainage systems to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from any premises. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The Village shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement
agency may be delegated in writing by the authorized enforcement agency to
persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the Village. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the stormwater drainage system
and generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted
by the authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-5: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth in this chapter and promulgated pursuant to this
chapter are minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend, nor
imply, that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no
contamination or pollution of stormwater or unauthorized discharge of
pollutants to the stormwater drainage system or to waters of the United States.
(Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-6: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the stormwater drainage system or waters of the United
States any materials, pollutants, or waters containing any pollutants that
cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards.
The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illegal discharge to the
stormwater drainage system is prohibited except as described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing, fire hydrant flushing,
discharges from potable water sources, landscape irrigation, lawn watering,
rising groundwater, groundwater infiltration, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, diverted stream flows, natural riparian habitat and wetland flows,
springs, storm sewer cleaning water, street wash water from streets where
spills or leaks of pollutants or toxic or hazardous materials have not occurred
(unless the pollutants or toxic or hazardous materials have been removed),
foundation drains, footing drains, crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, noncommercial vehicle washing, routine external building washing
that does not use detergents, dechlorinated swimming pool discharges
(discharges must contain less than one part per million chlorine), firefighting
activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants or toxic or
hazardous materials.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the United States
environmental protection agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and all other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted by the authorized enforcement agency for the discharge to the
stormwater drainage system.
   B.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections: The construction, use, maintenance,
or continued existence of illicit connections to the stormwater drainage system
is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage or any other nonstormwater discharge to
the MSSSS, or allows such a connection to continue. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-7: SUSPENSION OF MSSSS ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
Village may, without prior notice, suspend MSSSS discharge access to a person
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, to the health or welfare of persons, to the MSSSS, or to waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MSSSS or waters of the
United States and to minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension Due To The Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MSSSS in violation of this chapter may have their MSSSS
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator, in
writing, of the proposed termination of its MSSSS access. The violator may
petition the authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
A person violates this chapter if the person reinstates MSSSS access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior written
approval of the authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-8: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an NPDES construction site activities permit or NPDES
industrial activities permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Said person shall submit to the Village a copy of the notice of intent (NOI)
that was provided to the Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA).
Additional proof of compliance with an NPDES construction site activities
permit or NPDES industrial activities permit may be required, in a form
acceptable to the Village, prior to the allowing of discharges to the MSSSS.
(Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-9: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   The authorized enforcement agency shall be permitted to enter and
inspect premises subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
   B.   Facility operators shall allow the authorized enforcement agency ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination, copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit, and the performance of any additional duties as required by state
and federal law.
   C.   The authorized enforcement agency shall have the right to set up on any
premises such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized
enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the premises'
stormwater discharge.
   D.   The authorized enforcement agency has the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
   E.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
premises to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the authorized enforcement agency
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the operator.
   F.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the authorized enforcement agency
access to a premises is a violation of this chapter. A person who is the
operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated
with industrial activity commits a violation of this chapter if the person
denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter.
   G.   If the authorized enforcement agency has been refused access to any
part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and it is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant or other order from any court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-10: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
The owner, or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment, shall
provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal stormwater drainage
system or waters of the United States through the use of structural and
nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premises,
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES
permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the
provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the
NPDES permit. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-11: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-12: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or any person responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation, has information regarding any known or suspected
release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
in pollutants entering stormwater, the stormwater drainage system, or waters of
the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency
response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the
event of a release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the
authorized enforcement agency in person, by phone, or by facsimile no later
than the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be
confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the Village within three
(3) business days of the phone call or personal notice. If the discharge of
prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years. (Ord.
1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-13: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Whenever the Village finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed
to meet a requirement of this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may
order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may require, without limitation:
   A.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
   B.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
   C.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
   D.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination
hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
   E.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
   F.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work may be performed by the authorized enforcement agency and the expense
thereof shall be charged to the violator. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-14: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the
appeal before a hearing officer of the Village, or other designated
administrative body, shall take place within thirty (30) days from the date of
receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the designated hearing officer
shall be final. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-15: ENFORCEMENT:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within thirty (30)
days of the decision of the designated hearing officer, then the authorized
enforcement agency reserves the right to enter upon the subject private
property and to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/
or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the authorized
enforcement agency or designee to enter upon the premises for the purposes set
forth above.
The authorized enforcement agency may extend the period for corrective action
upon a showing of good cause for extension of the corrective action period.
(Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-16: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation by the authorized
enforcement agency, the owner of the property shall be notified of the cost of
abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file with the
Village Clerk of the Village a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within fifteen (15) days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the designated management agency
or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall
constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall become liable
to the Village by reason of such violation. The liability may be paid in not
more than twelve (12) equal monthly payments. Interest at the rate of prime
rate charged by Harris NA to its most creditworthy customers from time to time
plus two percent (2%) per annum, shall be assessed on the balance beginning on
the first day following discovery of the violation. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-17: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized enforcement
agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-
2008)
4-7-18: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions including, but not limited to, storm drain
stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops and cleanup activities. (Ord.
1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-19: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided by this
chapter, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is declared to be a threat to public health, safety,
and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated
or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin,
or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 1137, 3-
19-2008)
4-7-20: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to
a criminal penalty of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation per day.
Each violation and each day upon which an individual violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
4-7-21: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorney fees, court costs
and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including
sampling and monitoring expenses. (Ord. 1137, 3-19-2008)
CHAPTER 8
COAL TAR BASED SEALANTS AND PAH SEALANTS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Product Identifications
4-8-3: Certification
4-8-4: Penalties
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICATOR Shall mean any person who, for compensation applies a sealant within
the Village to public or privately owned surfaces including driveways, parking
lots, or recreational surfaces.
SEALANTS As used in this Chapter shall mean and include: "Pavement Sealant",
"Pavement Seal", "Sealcoat," "coal tar based sealant" and "High PAH Sealants"
any of which signifies a liquid that is applied to asphalt surfaces or in some
occasions on any surface, to protect the surfaces from damage or further damage
usually due to the freezing and thawing cycles, ultra- violet frequency rays
and/or traffic.
(Ord. 1287, 6-22-2016)
4-8-2: PRODUCT IDENTIFICATION:
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (hereinafter "PAH") are unsubstituted
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH) and PAH derivatives found in coal-tar
and asphalt-based seal coat products.
product and shall require that all Applicators refrain from using any product
with the identifiers found in Table A below:
   TABLE A:
Coal Tar Based Sealants       Other High PAH Sealants
a.   CAS#65996-92-1        a.   CAS#64742-90-1
b.   CAS#65996-93-2        b.   CAS#69013-21-4
c.   CAS#65996-89-6        c.   Steam-cracked Petroleum Residues
d.   CAS#8007-45-2         d.   Steam-cracked Asphalt
e.   Coal Tar              e.   Pyrolysis Fuel Oil
f.   Coal Tar Pitch        f.   Pyrolysis Oil
g.   Coal Tar Distillates  g.   Heavy Aromatic Pyrolysis Oil
h.   RT-12                 h.   Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO)
I.   Refined Tar           I.   Heavy Pyrolysis Oil (HPO)
j.   Refined Coal Tar Pitchj.   Ethylene Tar
k.   Coal Tar Pitch Volatilk.   Ethylene Bottoms
l.   Tar                    
 
As other coal tar and high PAH sealants are identified by descriptive terms
and/or are identified by CAS#, this additional product information may be added
to the product list stated above by ordinance amending this Table and
thereafter shall be excluded from use.
It shall be unlawful and in violation of this ordinance for any Applicator or
any person to apply any Sealant that exceeds 0.1% total PAH by weight. If it is
not clear if a sealant product contains levels of PAH in excess of those
described in Table A, then a product's total PAH content by weight may be
determined by independent laboratory analysis; alternately, a product's total
PAH content by weight may be estimated through the use of the MSDS (or SDS),
independent laboratory analysis, independent peer-reviewed research, studies by
authoritative governmental bodies, or a combination of these sources. (Ord.
1287, 6-22-2016)
4-8-3: CERTIFICATION:
Prior to application of Sealants by any Applicator, such applicator shall sign
a certification on a form provided by the Village of North Barrington that the
Applicator and any person acting under the direction of the Applicator) will
not apply any products prohibited under this ordinance to any public or private
property within the Village of North Barrington. (Ord. 1287 ,6-22-2016)
4-8-4: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 4:1-4-1 General Penalty as
determined by the findings of the Health Officer. (Ord. 1287, 6-22-2016)
TITLE 5
ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
CHAPTER 1
EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: General Standards
5-1-4: Operation Standards And Requirements
5-1-5: Site Development Or Alteration Permit
5-1-6: Fees
5-1-7: Bond Requirements
5-1-8: Responsibilities Of Village And Permittee
5-1-9: Appeals
5-1-10: Exemptions From Provisions
5-1-11: Information Retained
5-1-12: Nuisance Conditions
5-1-13: Violations
5-1-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations contained in this chapter governing the clearing, grading,
excavating and transporting of or otherwise disturbing land are established for
the purpose of avoiding or lessening the following situations and to provide
minimum standards to safeguard persons, to protect property and to prevent the
despoliation of the environment and to promote the public welfare by regulating
and controlling the design, construction, quality of materials and the
construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of earth on
land situated within the Village boundaries:
   A.   That the washing, blowing and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
   B.   That said soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gullies,
washed out fills and embankments;
   C.   That the sediment from said soil erosion tends to clog sewers and
ditches and to pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes and reservoirs;
   D.   That said sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most
beneficial purposes, destroying fish and other aquatic life, and that said
sediment is costly and difficult to remove;
   E.   That said sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways, resulting
in greatly increased chances of flooding at grave danger to public health and
safety; and
   F.   That stripping and disturbing and breaking the topsoil of land tends to
destroy the physical characteristics of such land and its natural beauty,
especially where the land is rolling. (1977 Code §
6-1-1)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms used herein are defined as set
forth below:
BERM: The placement of fill material to a height greater than eighteen inches
(18") but less than four feet (4') with side slopes not exceeding three to one
(3:1) above the existing ground surface.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village of North Barrington for the
construction, erection or alteration of a structure or building as required by
this code.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: That the specific inspections and tests where
required have been performed, and that such tests comply with the applicable
requirements of this chapter.
CUBIC YARDS: The volume of material in excavation and/or fill.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated by man and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
PERSON: Any person, firm or corporation being a legal entity, public or
private, the state of Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions, and
the United States of America, its agencies and instrumentalities, and any
agent, servant, officer or employee of the foregoing.
REMOVAL: Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction, or
killing by spraying.
SITE: A lot resulting from any subdivision approved after January 1, 1971, and,
whether approved before or after January 1, 1971:
A. Any subdivision of property; or
B. Any planned unit development; or
C. Any combination of lots or sites where grading work is performed as a single
unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT OR ALTERATION: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and
constructing driveways.
SITE DEVELOPMENT OR ALTERATION PERMIT: The permit provided for and required by
this chapter and this code.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures.
VILLAGE: The Village of North Barrington. (1977 Code §
6-1-2; amd. Ord. 800, 6-28-1999; 2004 Code)
5-1-3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
The following general principles and those found in chapter 5 of this title
shall apply to any and all applications and plans for and the granting of a
permit provided for herein and the work carried out pursuant to such plan and
permit: (1977 Code §
6-1-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any given time
during development.
   B.   Such minimum area exposure shall be kept to as short a duration of time
as is practical.
   C.   Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate, mulching or other nonviable
cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during development.
   D.   Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps shall
be installed and maintained where necessary to remove sediment from runoff
waters from land undergoing development.
   E.   Provision shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased runoff
caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after development.
   F.   Permanent, final plant covering or structures shall be installed as
soon as possible.
   G.   The plan of development shall relate to the topography and soils of the
site so that the lowest potential for erosion is created.
   H.   Natural plant covering, trees, shrubbery and vines shall be retained
and protected so far as is consistent with developing the site. (1977 Code §
6-1-3)
   I.   All berms shall be constructed to the following standards:
      1.   The slope of a berm shall not exceed a three to one ratio (3:1).
      2.   The height of a berm shall not exceed four feet (4'). (Ord. 800, 6-
28-1999)
5-1-4: OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
All earth moving grading and grading operations not specifically exempted by
the provisions of this chapter shall comply with the applicable standards and
requirements set forth in chapter 5 of this title. (1977 Code §
6-1-4; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1-5: SITE DEVELOPMENT OR ALTERATION PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: Before land is cleared, graded, excavated, transported
or otherwise disturbed by the movement of earth for purposes including, but not
limited to, the construction of buildings, the mining of minerals, including
sand and gravel, the streets by any person, or any alterations to the
topography of proposed or existing developments, a site development or
alteration permit embodying the proposed earth movement shall be obtained from
the permit officer and plans submitted with the permit application in
conformance with section
8-3-2 of this code, where development comes under any one or more of the
following provisions, unless such development is exempted therefrom by
subsection B of this section:
      1.   Excavation, fill, or any combination thereof, which will exceed one
hundred (100) cubic yards or the construction of a "berm" as defined in this
chapter.
      2.   Excavation will exceed four feet (4') in depth at its deepest point
from existing ground surface.
      3.   Excavation, fill, or any combination thereof will exceed an area of
five thousand (5,000) square feet of ground surface.
      4.   Plant cover is to be removed from an area exceeding five thousand
(5,000) square feet on any vacant parcel of land in excess of ten (10) acres.
(Ord. 800, 6-28-1999)
   B.   Exemptions From Permit: A permit is not required for the following:
      1.   Excavations below finished grade for septic tanks and drain fields,
tanks, water pipes, vaults, tunnels, equipment basements, swimming pools,
cellars, or footings of buildings or structures for which a building permit
shall have been issued by the Village, unless part of a development which would
otherwise require such a permit.
      2.   Excavation or removal of vegetation in public utility easements by
public utility companies for the purpose of installing underground utilities.
      3.   Tilling of the soil for fire protection purposes.
   C.   Application For Permit:
      1.   No site development or building permit shall be issued until the
developer submits a site development plan, together with other submissions
required by this chapter and chapter 5 of this title and certifies that any
land clearing construction or development involving the movement of earth shall
be in accordance with such plan and submissions.
      2.   Each application for a site development permit shall be made by the
owner of the property or his authorized agent to the permit officer on a form
furnished for that purpose. When grading or plant cover removal is proposed as
a part of a building permit application, the building permit application and
the site development permit application may be combined, and one plot plan, in
the number of copies required by the permit officer, may be submitted showing
building plans and site development plans. A registered civil engineer shall
certify as to the accuracy of the existing and proposed contour lines. The
requirements for individual lots ordinarily can be met by reference to a
subdivision or planned unit development for which a site development permit has
been issued. Each application shall be accompanied by the following, unless the
permit officer finds any item unnecessary, to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter; provided, that the permit officer shall grant no
exemption from subsection C2a of this section to any applicant who intends to
move in excess of five hundred (500) cubic yards of dirt:
         a.   With respect to site developments, a vicinity sketch showing
acreage of site, boundary lines, zoning, type of proposed sewer and water
facilities, location of existing utilities, buildings and drains on and within
one hundred feet (100') of the site; provided however, that in the event
adjacent property owners refuse access to their property so that exact
measurements may not be furnished, then the best available information
regarding such utilities, buildings and drains on such property shall be
acceptable, together with a legend and scale. There shall be included on or
with such a vicinity sketch:
            (1)   A soil map of the subject property showing the predominant
soil types of the site based on the soil maps prepared by the United States
department of agriculture or soil borings for the specific property.
            (2)   Such information of those areas abutting or adjacent to the
site as show existing drainage patterns and the drainage course that may
affect, or be affected by, the development of the site.
            (3)   The name and address of the developer or owner.
            (4)   The name and address of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant, together with the name of applicant's principal contact at such
firm.
            (5)   Limits of natural floodplain(s), if any, as defined in the
floodplain provisions of this code 1 .
            (6)   Areas to be sodded, seeded, mulched, or paved.
            (7)   Acreage of area to be vegetatively stabilized, if any.
            (8)   Areas to be left undisturbed.
         b.   With respected to site grading, existing topography of the site
and a one hundred foot (100') adjacent peripheral strip, proposed contours and
final grades, and street profiles, and indicating what measures will be
employed to protect cut and fill slopes from surface runoff. In the event
adjacent property owners will not permit access to their property so that
accurate measurements of property within one hundred feet (100') can be
furnished as required by this subsection C, then approximate dimensions of
adjacent property shall be acceptable.
         c.   Storm drainage by means of a plan based upon a storm drainage
study, including a drainage area map and computations, and indicating existing
conditions at proposed and natural outlets, including:
            (1)   Whether the drainage course is hard earth or vegetated.
            (2)   Whether the constructed outlet will be located in open sun,
open shade, or dense shade.
            (3)   Whether the natural or proposed outlet is subject to long
term or continuous flow.
            (4)   Whether the existing outlet is actively eroding.
            (5)   Whether there is evidence of a high water table (permanent or
seasonal).
            (6)   Whether the area is subject to seepage or spring flow.
            (7)   The elevation of normal water level in all proposed and
natural outlets.
            (8)   A profile below outlet for a sufficient distance to indicate
the natural gradient of the accepting natural outlet and/or stream channel.
            (9)   A cross section and profile of existing stream channels where
applicable.
            (10)   A ditch design and computations for all seeded, sodded, or
bare earth outlets, ditches and similar water conduction facilities.
         d.   Estimate schedule and phasing of development of the site, as
follows:
Phase I: Stripping and/or clearing
Phase II: Rough grading and construction
Phase III: Final grading and vegetation establishment
Phase IV: Maintenance
All erosion and sedimentation control plans submitted to the permit officer for
approval shall show all erosion and sediment control measures planned to
provide protection throughout all the phases of construction listed above.
These plans shall also include any off site barrow and spoil areas, sewer
lines, utility lines, and haul and access roads, and shall further indicate:
            (1)   The start of clearing date.
            (2)   Duration of exposure of disturbed areas.
            (3)   Installation of temporary sediment control measures
(vegetative and structural) by phase and date.
            (4)   Installation of storm drainage by phase and date.
            (5)   Paving of streets and parking areas, if any, by phase and
date.
            (6)   Establishment of permanent vegetative cover (plans will show
what will be done to shorten the duration of exposure of disturbed areas as
soon after grading as possible), including seeding mixes and rates, type of
sod, seedbed preparation, seeding dates, lime and fertilizer application,
temporary seedings, if needed, mulching, or similar stabilization procedures.
            (7)   Details of all structural sediment control measures.
            (8)   Computations for sediment basins, if any. (1977 Code §
6-1-6; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Permit Review Procedures: The permit officer shall issue a site
development permit upon compliance with the conditions established by the
Village Board and upon compliance with other applicable provisions of this code
and other ordinances.
   E.   Conditions Of Permit: No site development permit shall be issued for an
intended building site unless:
      1.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the Village; or
      2.   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with an overall plan
previously approved by the Village for the area in which the site is situated.
(1977 Code § 6-1-10; amd. Ord. 800, 6-28-1999; 2004 Code)
   F.   Expiration Of Permit; Extensions: Every site development permit shall
expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by such
permit has not been commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days, or is not
completed within one year from date of issue; except, that the permit officer
may, if the permit holder presents satisfactory evidence that unusual
difficulties have prevented work being started or completed within the
specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of the permit. (1977 Code §
6-1-5)
   G.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit:
      1.   Revocation Or Suspension Authorized: In the event any person holding
a site development or alteration permit pursuant to this chapter violates the
terms of the permit, or conducts or carries on said site development in such a
manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of
persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the property of the
permittee, or conducts or carries on said site development so that it is
materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or
improvements in the neighborhood, the permit officer shall temporarily revoke
or suspend the permit.
      2.   Procedure:
         a.   No site development permit shall be permanently revoked or
suspended until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written
notice of such hearing shall be served upon the permittee, either personally or
by certified or registered mail; such notice to be deemed given upon deposit of
the same in the mail, and shall state:
            (1)   The grounds for complaint or reasons for the revocation or
suspension, in clear and concise language.
            (2)   The time when, and the place where, such hearing is to be
held.
         b.   Such notice shall be served by certified or registered mail or
personal service on the permittee not less than five (5) days prior to the date
set for the hearing.
         c.   At any such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity
to be heard, and he may call witnesses and present evidence on his behalf.
         d.   Upon conclusion of such hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall determine whether or not the permit shall be suspended or revoked. (1977
Code § 6-1-7)
         e.   At its next regularly scheduled meeting, the Board of Trustees
shall consider the recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals and shall make
a determination to suspend or revoke the permit.
      3.   After all the conditions as to notice to the permittee, as set forth
in subsection G2 of this section, have been fulfilled, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall hold the hearing at its next regularly scheduled meeting and
shall consider recommendations to the Board of Trustees for permanent
revocation or suspension of permits which have been temporarily suspended.
(2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
5-1-6: FEES:
Filing shall be as set forth in section
1-8-2 of this code. (Ord. 800, 6-28-1999)
5-1-7: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
When site development permit is required, or approval to remove vegetation and
plant cover which is required by this chapter, the applicant shall be required
to file with the Village Clerk a performance bond or other improvement security
in a form satisfactory to the Village Attorney and in the amount deemed
sufficient by the permit officer to cover all the costs of improvements,
landscaping, maintenance of landscaping for such periods as specified by the
Village, engineering and inspection fees, and incidental expenses. (1977 Code §
6-1-9; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1-8: RESPONSIBILITIES OF VILLAGE AND PERMITTEE:
Failure of the Village officials to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend denial of the site development permit or of the
Zoning Board of Appeals to deny said permit shall not relieve the permittee
from responsibility for the condition or damage resulting therefrom and shall
not result in the Village, its officers or agents being responsible for any
condition or damage resulting therefrom. (1977 Code § 6-1-11)
5-1-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority: The applicant, or the Plan Commission, or the Environmental
and Health Commission may appeal the decision of the permit officer, including
any failure to approve resulting from lack of action by the permit officer, to
the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Hearing: Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Board shall schedule
and hold a public hearing, after giving the same notice thereof as required in
the case of variations to the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Fee: The filing fee for such appeal shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00); provided, however, that said fee is waived for any appeal filed by
the Plan Commission or the Environmental and Health Commission.
   D.   Decisions: The Board shall render a decision within thirty (30) days of
the completion of the hearing. (1977 Code § 6-1-14; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 1040,
6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
5-1-10: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The Zoning Board of Appeals may authorize exceptions to any of the requirements
and regulations set forth in this chapter.
   A.   Application For Exception: Application for any exception shall be made
by a verified petition of applicant stating fully the grounds of the
application and the facts relied upon by the petitioner. Such petition shall be
filed with the site development permit application. In order for the land
referred to in the petition to come within the provisions of this chapter, it
shall be necessary that the Zoning Board of Appeals find all of the following
facts with respect thereto:
      1.   That the land is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations of record that it
is impossible or impractical for the subdivider to comply with all of the
regulations of this chapter.
      2.   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the petitioner.
      3.   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the subject
property.
   B.   Referral And Recommendations: Each proposed exception may be referred
by the Zoning Board of Appeals to qualified persons for investigation, and such
persons shall transmit to the Zoning Board of Appeals their recommendations,
which recommendations shall be reviewed along with all other matters submitted
prior to the granting of any exception. (1977 Code § 6-1-15)
   C.   Decisions By Board Of Trustees: After public hearing thereon, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall make a recommendation to the Board of Trustees,
and the Board of Trustees shall either approve the site development permit
application with the exceptions and conditions it deems necessary, or it may
disapprove such site development permit application and exception application,
or it may take such other action as is appropriate. (1977 Code § 6-1-15; amd.
2004 Code)
5-1-11: INFORMATION RETAINED:
Plans, specifications and reports for all site developments shall be retained
by the Village Clerk. (1977 Code § 6-1-12; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1-12: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
This chapter shall not be construed as authorizing any person to maintain a
private or public nuisance upon his property, or to perform any act which the
statutes or case law of the state would not permit regarding drainage and
waterways, and compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not be a
defense in any action to abate such nuisance or involving water rights. (1977
Code § 6-1-16)
5-1-13: VIOLATIONS:
No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any grading,
excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any provisions of this chapter, and no person shall fail to do any act
required by this chapter. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued, or permitted. (1977 Code § 6-1-17)
CHAPTER 2
NATIVE PLANT COMMUNITIES AND WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Purpose
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Landowners' Rights And Responsibilities
5-2-4: Removal Of Prohibited Species
5-2-5: Appeals
5-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is the express intent of the corporate authorities that it shall be lawful
to grow native plants, including, but not limited to, ferns, grasses, forbs,
aquatic plants, trees and shrubs in a landscape when these plants were obtained
not in violation of local, state or federal laws. (Ord. 917, 3-31-2003)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the stated meanings.
DESTRUCTION: The complete killing of plants, or effectively preventing such
plants from maturing to the bloom or flower stage.
LANDOWNER: One who owns or controls land within the Village, including the
Village itself.
NOXIOUS WEEDS: The following plant species are defined as "noxious weeds":
Ambrosia artemisiifoli (common ragweed)
Ambrosia trifida (giant ragweed)
Cannabis sativa (marijuana)
Carduus nutans (musk thistle)
Sonchus arvensis (Canada thistle)
Sorghum almum (sorghum-almum)
Sorghum halepense (johnsongrass)
Sorghum spp. (sorghum)
NUISANCE WEEDS: A. The following two (2) species are defined as "nuisance
weeds":
Lythrum salicaria (purple loosestrife)
Rosa multiflora (multiflora rose)
   B.   The following species (particularly invasive, or allergen producing
species) are also declared "nuisance" weeds:
Certain Arctium spp. (burdock);
Cirsium and Carduus spp. (thistle);
Ambrosia spp. (ragweed); and
Alliaria petiolata (garlic mustard).
PRESERVATION OR RESTORATION AREA: Any lands managed to preserve or restore
native Illinois grasses and forbs, native trees, shrubs, wildflowers and
aquatic plants; an old field succession of native and nonnative plants, or a
combination of these.
TURF GRASS: Grass commonly used in regularly cut lawns or play areas, such as,
but not limited to, bluegrass, fescue and ryegrass blends. (Ord. 917, 3-31-
2003)
5-2-3: LANDOWNERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   This chapter shall apply equally to all landowners, including the
Village of North Barrington.
   B.   Every landowner having lawns of the conventional turf grass type shall
be responsible for managing the turf grass at a height not to exceed eight
inches (8").
   C.   Every landowner shall make a good faith attempt to destroy or cause to
be destroyed all noxious weeds on land which he owns or controls. (Ord. 917, 3-
31-2003)
5-2-4: REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED SPECIES:
The Village may not damage, remove, burn or cut vegetation of any property
owner for which the Village does not have management responsibilities, except
those species set forth in the definition of weeds in section
5-2-2 of this chapter; and turf grass at a height exceeding eight inches (8")
as set forth in subsection 5-2-3B of this chapter; provided, however, that the
Village Forester or his representative shall provide written notice to the
property owner of the existence of prohibited species and/or turf grass
exceeding eight inches (8"), directing the property owner to remove same within
ten (10) days following such notice and with said removal to be done under the
direction of the Village Forester or his representative.
   A.   The notice shall also notify the property owner that unless such
prohibited species or turf grass is removed in compliance with the terms herein
within said ten (10) day period, the Village will proceed with the removal of
said prohibited species or turf grass and assess the costs thereof against the
property owner.
   B.   The Village may file a notice of lien for the cost and expense thereof
incurred by the Village within sixty (60) days in accordance with state law and
enforce said lien pursuant to state law.
   C.   Service of such notice shall be by personal service where the owner of
said premises is a resident of the Village; where the owner is a nonresident of
the Village, said notice shall be served by certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for general
taxes for the last preceding year on the property. Notice shall also be sent by
regular mail to the person in possession of the property. (Ord. 917, 3-31-2003)
5-2-5: APPEALS:
The property owner or the person in possession of the property may file with
the Village Clerk within five (5) days after notice has been sent by the
Village Forester, a request for hearing to be held within twenty (20) days by
the corporate authorities or a committee designated by the corporate
authorities. After such hearing, whether before the corporate authorities or
the committee designated by them, a final decision shall be rendered by the
corporate authorities. Notice to the neighboring property owners within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property of the hearing is at the discretion
of the corporate authorities. (Ord. 917, 3-31-2003)
CHAPTER 3
TREES
ARTICLE A. TREE PRESERVATION
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Purpose
5-3A-2: Definitions
5-3A-3: Tree Removal Permit
5-3A-4: Removal And Replacement Standards
5-3A-4-1: Cost Sharing Tree Planting Policy On Private Property
5-3A-5: Tree Preservation Involving Construction
5-3A-6: Tree Protection During Construction
5-3A-7: Street Right-Of-Way Tree Management
5-3A-8: Appeals
5-3A-9: Violations; Penalties
5-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish high tree preservation standards
for all public and private properties within the Village and to preserve trees
as an important public resource enhancing the Village's natural character and
heritage. This article is hereby determined to be significant in the following
manner in protecting the public health, welfare and safety:
   A.   Preserving the essential character of those areas throughout the
community which are wooded and in a more natural state;
   B.   Protecting the habitat of its existing wildlife;
   C.   Reducing soil erosion and stormwater runoff;
   D.   Enhancing and preserving the air quality through the filtering effect
of trees on air pollutants;
   E.   Creating a sound buffer to noise pollution;
   F.   Providing protection against natural elements such as sun, wind and
rain;
   G.   Providing habitat for birds which, in turn, assists in the control of
insects; and
   H.   Protecting and increasing property values. (Ord. 861, 5-21-2001)
5-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this article:
BUILDING ACTIVITY AREA: That buildable area of a lot or parcel in which
construction and building activities occur which shall be the smallest
practical area of a lot or parcel to be determined with the objective of
preserving protected trees.
CROWN OF A TREE: The upper part of a tree, including the living branches with
their foliage.
DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT OR DBH: The diameter of a tree measured at four and one-
half feet (41/2') above the grade existing at the base of a tree.
DRIPLINE: An artificial line along the ground which conforms to the perimeter
of the crown of a tree and projects vertically to the ground.
PROTECTED TREE: Any tree, other than buckthorn, having a diameter of six inches
(6") dbh or larger other than those exempt from protection pursuant to this
article and other than removal of trees by the Village within any right-of-way.
REMOVAL: Physical removal of a tree, or actions such as severe pruning,
damaging, poisoning or other direct or indirect action resulting in, or likely
to result in, the death of a tree.
ROOT ZONE: The area of the ground near or beneath a tree having its center
point at the center of the trunk of the tree and having a radius equal to one
foot (1') for every inch of dbh.
TREE: A woody, self-supporting perennial plant reaching at least twenty feet
(20') or more in height at maturity usually with one trunk, or a multistemmed
trunk system and having a more or less definite crown.
TREE PRESERVATION AREA: That area of a lot or parcel of land within which all
protected trees shall be protected as designated on a tree preservation plan.
TREE PRESERVATION PLAN: A written plan having text and/or graphic illustrations
indicating the methods which are to be used to preserve existing protected
trees during construction.
TREE PROTECTION DEVICES: Barriers, fences, other devices and techniques
reasonably required to protect the tree preservation area from intrusion by
construction vehicles and equipment, materials and spoils.
TREE REMOVAL PERMIT: The required written permit issued in order to remove any
protected tree within the corporate limits of the Village.
TREE SURVEY: A graphic display indicating location, size, species and condition
of all protected trees. (Ord. 861, 5-21-2001)
5-3A-3: TREE REMOVAL PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: During the process of any public or private new
construction, enlargement or expansion of any structure, building or parking
area, service area, septic system, or any other construction or development, it
shall be unlawful for any person to cut down, destroy, remove or move, or
effectively destroy through damaging, or authorize the cutting down,
destroying, removing, moving or damaging of any protected tree without first
obtaining a tree removal permit. (Ord. 861, 5-21-2001)
   B.   Application, Fee, Bond, Plan And Agreement Required: In the event a
tree removal permit is sought in connection with construction requiring a
building permit, the application shall be accompanied by:
      1.   A tree removal permit fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   A cash bond or letter of credit in the amount of two hundred dollars
($200.00) per inch of dbh of each replacement tree which cash bond or letter of
credit shall be refunded to the applicant twenty four (24) months after each
replacement tree is planted if the Village Forester certifies that such
replacement tree is healthy and that there are no uncured violations of the
provisions of this article as to the property.
      3.   In addition, the applicant shall guarantee the protection of all
existing tree(s) within the tree preservation area not approved for removal by
depositing a cash bond of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). The cash bond shall
be retained for a reasonable period of time following the completion of the
building project, not to exceed one year. The cash bond is to be released upon
the satisfaction of the Village Forester that the tree(s) to be preserved have
not been endangered. The cash bond shall be forfeited as a penalty for any
unauthorized removal or destruction of any protected tree.
      4.   Five (5) copies of a tree survey of the property which includes a
listing of all trees with a dbh of six inches (6") or larger, provided that the
Village Forester may provide that the tree survey exclude those portions of the
site which the Village Forester determines will not be affected by the
development.
      5.   A report from an arborist who is certified as such unless such
qualification is waived by the Village Forester, listing all trees having a dbh
of six inches (6") or larger which will be removed to accommodate the project
showing species, size, and condition.
      6.   A tree preservation plan for all proposed construction and
demolition activity showing how the tree preservation area will be segregated
and protected from the building activity areas.
      7.   A tree protection/replacement agreement signed by the owner of the
property and by the contractor for the project in such form as is consistent
with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3A-4: REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Unless the Village Forester determines that, consistent with good
forestry practices, the replacement of some or all of the removed trees is not
appropriate, within twelve (12) months after removal of each protected tree
pursuant to a tree removal permit, the owner or successor owner shall replace
the removed tree pursuant to the following schedule:
 
DBH Of Removed Tree      Number Of Replacement Trees
6 inches to 12 inches      2 trees at 2 inches or 1 tree at 4 inches
13 inches to 24 inches     4 trees at 2 inches or 2 trees at 4 inches
25 inches or greater       6 trees at 3 inches or 3 trees at 4 inches
 
   B.   At the time of replacement of trees, the owners shall provide to the
Village a copy of a written guarantee from the vendor of the tree to the owner
that the tree will be replaced if the tree dies or becomes diseased within one
year after installation of the tree. The Village Forester may accept any other
form of such guarantee reasonably acceptable to the Village Forester.
   C.   The owner is encouraged, but not required, to replace any protected
tree, in the event the tree is diseased, dead or dying from natural causes, or
in the event the tree is damaged or injured by natural causes where it is
likely to die or become diseased. (Ord. 861, 5-21-2001)
5-3A-4-1: COST SHARING TREE PLANTING POLICY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
A private residential property owner may request financial reimbursement from
the Village for the planting of a tree on private property located within the
Village. The Village will reimburse the property owner up to fifty percent
(50%) of the actual cost of the purchase and planting of the tree or three
hundred dollars ($300.00) whichever amount is less. The following program
guidelines shall apply.
   A.   All single-family residential property owners are eligible for the
Program. To apply, the property owner must obtain a quote from a nursery
engaged in the business of selling and planting of trees. The quote must
include a one-year guarantee.
   B.   An application must be completed and submitted with a site plan noting
the location of the proposed planting to the Village of North Barrington along
with the quotation. The quotation must include the following information:
      1.   Cost of the tree.
      2.   The species of the tree.
      3.   Caliper of the tree.
      4.   The cost of Planting.
      5.   One-year guarantee.
   C.   The tree planting location must be located in the front or side yard
when fronting on a fully improved street and be approved by the Village. The
Village reserves the right to make exceptions to the location in unique
circumstances.
   D.   The property owner must mark the location of the proposed tree planting
to be clearly visible for inspection by the Village.
   E.   Upon receipt of the application, a Village representative will perform
a site visit to verify the tree planting location meets the policy requirements
and Village Code.
   F.   The minimum caliper size of the tree shall be two (2) inches.
   G.   If the work is qualified under the policy, and the Village verifies the
planting location meets the policy requirements, then the Village will
reimburse an applicant fifty percent (50%) of the total cost of the tree
purchase, planting cost, and one-year guarantee or three hundred ($300.00),
whichever is the lesser amount. No reimbursement shall be made if the Village
Administrator determines there is no available funds in the Village's budget to
provide financial assistance.
   H.   Eligible applicants must provide the Village proof of payment to the
nursery to be eligible for reimbursement. Reimbursement is subject to all other
conditions of this policy and otherwise prescribed by law and Village Code.
   I.   Only one tree per year per residential address.
   J.   Program participants in any given year may not participate the
following year.
   K.   Each year the Village will make available a list of tree species that
are acceptable to be planted.
   L.   No trees may be planted in the public right-of-way.
   M.   Applications are accepted on a first come, first served basis.
   N.   By signing the application, the property owner gives permission for a
Village representative to enter upon the private property for purpose of
performing a visual inspection of the proposed tree planting location.
   O.   It is the property owner's responsibility to call JULIE prior to
digging to avoid conflicts with the underground utilities and to verify the
tree planting location does not interfere with the private sewer disposal
system (septic field). (Ord. 2022-07, 8-17-2022)
5-3A-5: TREE PRESERVATION INVOLVING CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Tree Preservation Plan Required: In connection with projects involving
excavation, earthmoving, demolition, and/or the construction of any structure
requiring a building permit, a tree preservation plan shall be submitted as an
attachment to the application for such building permit. The tree preservation
plan shall specify the following:
      1.   The tree preservation area and building activity area.
      2.   Steps to be taken to provide tree protection devices adjacent to the
tree preservation area.
      3.   The name, address, telephone number and facsimile number of the
general contractor, who shall be responsible for the construction, erection,
and maintenance of tree protection devices adjacent to the tree preservation
area.
      4.   The location, shape and spatial arrangement of all existing and
proposed structures, driveways, parking areas, roads, and access drives
designed in such a way as to avoid unnecessary removal of protected trees.
      5.   Location of existing property lines, proposed or existing utility
services including gas, electric, telephone, and cable TV. Every effort shall
be made to protect existing protected trees during the placement of utility
service lines including auguring as opposed to open cutting where feasible. A
copy of the tree preservation plan and this article shall be submitted to the
appropriate public utilities in order to alert said regulated public utilities
to the proposed placement of the regulated utility service lines.
      6.   Identification of land uses adjacent to the subject site. (Ord. 861,
5-21-2001)
      7.   A tree survey showing the location, species, trunk diameter and
condition of every tree with a dbh of six inches (6") or larger on the
property. Each such tree shall be identified by a number on the tree survey and
on the tree. The survey shall distinguish existing trees which are proposed to
be destroyed, relocated, replaced, preserved at their present location, or
introduced into the area from an off site source and identified on either the
map or an accompanying sheet. The Village Forester may provide that the tree
survey exclude those portions of the site which the Village Forester determines
will not be affected by the development. (Ord. 1134, 2-27-2008)
   B.   Location Of Structures Near Trees: Consistent with the various setback
requirements of the zoning ordinance, all buildings and other structures shall
be located upon a lot or parcel of land to minimize tree damage and/or removal.
   C.   Building Activity Area: The building activity area shall be the
smallest practical area of a lot or parcel of land.
   D.   Conditions Of Permit Issuance: Approval of an application for a
building permit involving tree removal activity shall be granted only if the
Village Forester finds that all reasonable efforts have been undertaken in the
architectural layout and design of the proposed development to preserve
existing trees and to otherwise enhance the aesthetic appearance of the
development by the incorporation of trees in the design process. Relocation or
replacement of trees may be required as a condition of approval in accordance
with the criteria set forth in this article. No tree removal shall take place
until the issuance of a tree removal permit.
   E.   Inspections: Work shall not begin on the site until the site has been
inspected by the Village for compliance with the tree preservation plan.
   F.   Plan Available At Site: An approved tree preservation plan shall be
available on the building site before work commences and at all times during
construction of the project. The general contractor shall be responsible for
notifying all other contractors of the tree preservation plan. (Ord. 861, 5-21-
2001)
5-3A-6: TREE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION:
During construction, reasonable steps necessary to prevent the destruction or
damaging of protected trees (other than those specified to be removed) shall be
taken, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Area Of Construction Activity: No construction activity, movement and/
or placement of equipment or material or spoils storage shall be permitted
outside the building activity area or within the tree preservation area. No
excess soil, additional fill, liquids, or construction debris shall be placed
within the root zone of any tree that is required to be preserved.
   B.   Tree Protection Devices:
      1.   Trees to be preserved shall be protected during construction by tree
protection devices around the drip line of each tree to prevent compaction of
soil and other damage to the tree by equipment or materials. No excess topsoil,
construction materials, debris or chemicals are allowed within the protected
drip line of any tree which is to be preserved. In addition, no parking of
vehicles, on site offices or machinery is allowed inside the protected drip
line. All areas for refueling, maintenance, outside eating, resting and burning
shall be located a sufficient distance from any protected tree to prevent
damage to such protected tree.
      2.   All required protective fencing or other physical barrier must be in
place around the tree preservation area and/or protected trees and approved by
the Village prior to beginning construction. The fencing or other physical
barrier must remain in place during the entire construction period. All fencing
must be secured to metal posts driven into the ground spaced no further than
ten feet (10') apart.
   C.   Attachments To Trees Prohibited: No attachments, fences or wires, other
than those approved for bracing, guying or wrapping, shall be attached to trees
during the construction period.
   D.   Grade Changes:
      1.   Whenever a change of ground grading is planned, the trees to be
preserved shall be protected by a wall so as to preserve the existing grade for
the roots.
      2.   Wherever a change of grading is planned, the topsoil shall be
preserved for the new landscaping to be installed. Unless otherwise authorized
by the tree removal permit, no soil is to be removed from within the root zone
of any tree that is to remain.
   E.   Trenches: When trenching alongside existing trees is unavoidable, the
trench must be one foot (1') for every one inch (1") dbh away from the base of
the existing tree to be protected.
   F.   Pruning: Construction pruning and root pruning of trees directly
impacted by construction may be required for preservation of existing trees.
These measures must be indicated on the tree preservation plan or the submitted
application for permit.
   G.   Utility Installations: All utilities, including service lines, shall be
installed in accordance with the tree preservation plan. Regulated public
utilities which have been notified of the tree preservation plan in accordance
with this article shall be responsible for adhering to said tree preservation
plan during installation of necessary utility service lines. (Ord. 861, 5-21-
2001)
5-3A-7: STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY TREE MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Public Tree Care: The Village may plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the right-of-way of all Village streets and
Village owned property as may be necessary to ensure public safety or preserve
or enhance the natural character and beauty of such streets or Village owned
property.
   B.   Removal Of Dead And Diseased Trees From Street Rights-Of-Way: The
Village may elect to remove dead and diseased trees from Village street rights-
of-way when, in the opinion of the Trustee in charge of roads or the Village
Forester, it is appropriate to do so. The person or agency under contract with
the Village for routine road maintenance is authorized to remove trees which
have fallen or which are determined to be in danger of falling or blocking the
public right-of-way.
   C.   Tree Topping: It shall be unlawful to top any tree on Village streets
or public property. "Topping" is defined as the cutting back of limbs to stubs
larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   D.   Rights And Duties Of Property Owners Abutting Village Rights- Of-Way:
      1.   Property owners are encouraged to engage in reasonable and routine
maintenance of trees abutting paved portions of Village rights-of-way,
contiguous to such owner's property, provided that the maintenance does not
otherwise violate the Village Code.
      2.   Property owners or persons residing on property abutting Village
owned rights-of-way are encouraged, but not required, to remove or destroy
invasive, noxious or nuisance weeds and buckthorn from the right-of-way
property, at the property owner(s)' or person(s)' expense. Invasive, noxious or
nuisance weeds are subject to the definitions of section
5-2-2 of this title.
      3.   It shall be the duty of each property owner or person residing on
property abutting paved Village right-of-way property to maintain the grass and
weeds on the right-of-way property by keeping its height at a level which
complies with this Code. This duty shall extend only to grass and weed cutting
and its imposition does not entail any further duty or responsibility on the
property owner or resident.
   E.   Removal Or Destruction Within Rights-Of-Way Or On Village Property: No
person shall remove, destroy or cause the removal or destruction of a protected
tree as defined in section
5-3A-2 of this article, shrub or plants within the right-of-way of any Village
street or Village owned property without first having obtained written
permission from the Village Forester.
   F.   Attaching Notices Or Wires: No person shall attach any cable, wire,
rope or sign to any tree, plant or shrub located within the right-of-way of any
Village street or on any Village owned property without first having obtained
written permission from the Village Forester.
   G.   Guidelines To Be Applied To Right-Of-Way Tree Planting:
      1.   Trees shall not be planted within ten feet (10') of utility poles or
utility boxes or within five feet (5') of a gas service line, or within ten
feet (10') of driveways, unless otherwise permitted or directed by the Village
Forester.
      2.   On corner lots, trees shall not be planted in the right-of-way of
any street which is within twenty five feet (25') of any intersecting street or
within the triangular area between the street and a line drawn between points
on the edge of the rights- of-way which are twenty five feet (25') from the
intersection of such streets. This is to maintain sight distance at
intersections.
      3.   No trees other than those species which upon maturity are less than
thirty feet (30') in height may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral
feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral feet of
any underground utility. (Ord. 1321, 4-25-2018)
5-3A-8: APPEALS:
The property owner may appeal in writing to the Environmental and Health
Commission any decision made by the Village Forester under the provisions of
this article within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered. If not satisfied
with the decision made by the Environmental and Health Commission, the property
owner may appeal in writing to the Village Board of Trustees within thirty (30)
days of the decision being rendered by the Environmental and Health Commission.
(Ord. 861, 5-21-2001; amd. Ord. 1040, 6-28-2004; Ord. 1129, 12-17-2007)
5-3A-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
fail to abide by the terms of any tree preservation plan pursuant to which a
building permit or tree removal permit has been issued.
   B.   Stop Work Order: If the precautions as specified in the tree
preservation plan were not undertaken before construction commenced or are not
maintained at any time during construction, a stop work order shall be issued
by the Village until such time as the permittee complies with these
precautions.
   C.   Penalties: Failure to obtain a tree removal permit prior to removing
any protected tree will result in a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
inch of protected tree diameter, but subject to a maximum fine as provided by
Illinois law. In the event that a tree is removed without a tree preservation
plan or tree removal permit and the size of the removed tree cannot be
determined, there shall be a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
tree. (Ord. 861, 5-21-2001)
ARTICLE B. DISEASED TREES
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Dutch Elm Disease
5-3B-2: Oak Wilt Disease
5-3B-3: Enforcement Official; Right Of Entry
5-3B-4: Notice To Remove
5-3B-5: Duty Of Owner To Abate Nuisance
5-3B-6: Hearing
5-3B-7: Penalty
5-3B-1: DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
   A.   Nuisances Declared; Destruction Required: Any tree of the species of
elm, zelkova and planera affected with fungus Ceratostomella ulmi, fungus
Gruphium ulmi, Phloem necrosis, or other tree infection, commonly known as
Dutch elm disease, as determined by laboratory analysis, is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and shall be removed and burned within ten (10) business
days following notification of the discovery of such infection. It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation being the owner of property
whereupon any such diseased tree is situated to possess or keep such tree after
the expiration of ten (10) business days following notification of the
discovery of such infection. (1977 Code §
6-3-1; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Breeding Places: Trees, or parts thereof, in a dead or dying condition,
including stumps and wood in wood piles, that may serve as a breeding place or
places for the European elm bark beetle, Scolytus multistriatus, are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for the person
owning property whereon the same are situated to possess or keep the same.
(1977 Code §
6-3-2)
5-3B-2: OAK WILT DISEASE:
Any tree of the species of oak affected with the fungus Chalara Guercina Henry,
commonly called oak wilt, as determined by laboratory analysis, is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be removed and burned within ten
(10) business days following notification of the discovery of such infection.
It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner of property whereupon any
such diseased tree is situated to possess or keep such a tree after the
expiration of ten (10) business days following notification of the discovery of
said infection. (1977 Code §
6-3-3; amd. 2004 Code)
5-3B-3: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The Village Forester is charged with enforcement of this article and, after
giving notice to the resident thereof, if any, of his intent and purpose, may
enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for purposes of inspecting
such premises for the presence thereon of infected trees, or of breeding places
of the European elm bark beetle, as described in sections
5-3B-1 and
5-3B-2 of this article, and may remove such samples, portions, or specimens
therefrom as are required for purposes of laboratory analysis to determine
whether any tree thereon is infected. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to prevent the Village Forester, or his duly authorized
representative, from entering upon private property for purposes of carrying
out his duties hereunder, or to interfere with the Village Forester, or his
authorized representative, in the lawful performance of his duties under the
provisions of this article. (1977 Code §
6-3-4)
5-3B-4: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   The Village Forester or his representative shall give to the owner of
the premises where the public nuisances described in sections
5-3B-1 and
5-3B-2 of this article are found, a written notice of the existence of such
nuisance, and requiring the removal and burning of same within ten (10)
business days following such notice, such removal and burning to be done under
the direction and supervision of the Village Forester or his representative.
The notice shall also notify the owner of said premises that unless such
nuisance is removed and burned in compliance with the terms thereof within the
ten (10) business day period, the Village will proceed with the removal and
burning of such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against the said property
owner. (1977 Code §
6-3-5; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Service of such notice shall be by personal service where the owner of
said premises is a resident of the Village; where the owner is a nonresident of
the Village, said notice shall be served by certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for general
taxes for the last preceding year on the property. Such notice shall be
delivered or mailed not less than thirty (30) days prior to the removal of the
tree or trees. (1977 Code §
6-3-7; amd. 2004 Code)
5-3B-5: DUTY OF OWNER TO ABATE NUISANCE:
It shall thereupon become the duty of the owner of the premises to cause such
diseased tree or trees and breeding place or places to be removed and burned
under the direction and supervision of the Village Forester or his authorized
representative. (1977 Code §
6-3-6)
5-3B-6: HEARING:
The owner of the premises may file with the Village Clerk within five (5)
business days after notice has been sent by the Village Forester, a request for
a hearing to be held within twenty (20) business days before the corporate
authorities or the committee designated by them. At such hearing, evidence may
be presented. After such hearing, whether before the corporate authorities or
the committee designated by them, the final decision shall be rendered by the
corporate authorities. (1977 Code §
6-3-8; amd. 2004 Code)
5-3B-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day during which a violation of this
article continues or is permitted shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. Imposition of any penalty for a violation of this article shall not be
construed as a waiver of the right of the Village to collect the costs of
removal of such nuisance, in accordance with the provisions of this article,
where it is necessary for the Village to remove such nuisances, in accordance
with provisions of this article. (1977 Code § 6-3-9; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE C. EMERALD ASH BORER
SECTION:
5-3C-1: Findings
5-3C-2: Quarantine Boundary
5-3C-3: Prohibited Acts
5-3C-4: Citizen Cooperation
5-3C-5: Penalty
5-3C-1: FINDINGS:
The emerald ash borer has been found in parts of Illinois and if not
controlled, could potentially wipe out the ash tree species in North America.
On July 19, 2007, the Illinois department of agriculture expanded its emerald
ash borer (EAB) quarantine to include all or portions of the eighteen (18)
northeasternmost counties of Illinois. Additionally, adjustments were made to
the quarantine to further restrict movement of potentially infested wood
products during the EAB flight season. (Ord. 1124, 8-22-2007)
5-3C-2: QUARANTINE BOUNDARY:
The Village of North Barrington lies within the EAB quarantine boundaries.
(Ord. 1124, 8-22-2007)
5-3C-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
The removal of the following items is hereby prohibited within this Village for
as long as the EAB quarantine is in effect, except upon written approval of the
Illinois department of agriculture:
   A.   The emerald ash borer in any living stage of development;
   B.   Ash trees of any size;
   C.   Ash limbs and branches;
   D.   Any cut, nonconiferous firewood;
   E.   Bark from ash trees and wood chips larger than one inch (1") from ash
trees;
   F.   Ash logs and lumber with either the bark or the outer one inch (1") of
sapwood, or both, attached;
   G.   Any item made from or containing the wood of the ash tree that is
capable of spreading the emerald ash borer; and
   H.   Any other article, product or means of conveyance reasonably determined
by the Illinois department of agriculture to present a risk of spreading the
beetle infestation. (Ord. 1124, 8-22-2007)
5-3C-4: CITIZEN COOPERATION:
To reduce risk of accidental introduction of the emerald ash borer, the Village
encourages its residents to purchase only locally grown nursery stock and
locally cut firewood. Anyone who suspects a tree has been infested by the
emerald ash borer is encouraged to contact the Village Forester. (Ord. 1124, 8-
22-2007)
5-3C-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each act is a separate offense. Each day
during which a violation of this article continues or is permitted shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 1124, 8-22-2007)
ARTICLE D. HERITAGE TREES
SECTION:
5-3D-1: Purpose And Intent
5-3D-2: Applicability
5-3D-3: Definitions
5-3D-4: Removal Prohibited
5-3D-5: Exceptions
5-3D-6: Tree Removal Permit Procedure
5-3D-7: Appeals
5-3D-8: Protection Plan Required Prior To Issuance Of Permit
5-3D-9: Public Utilities
5-3D-10: Violation; Penalty
5-3D-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This article is adopted for the purpose of preserving the many heritage trees
as defined herein in the Village of North Barrington. The preservation of these
trees will enhance the Village's scenic beauty, preserve property values,
encourage quality development, prevent soil erosion, counteract air pollution,
and help to maintain the climatic balance within the Village. For these reasons
the Village finds it is in the public interest to establish regulations
controlling the removal of and the preservation of heritage trees within the
Village. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article applies to all property, both public and private, within the
Village. The provisions of this article are in addition to the provisions of
article A of this chapter except where inconsistent with said article A, in
which case this article shall govern. The provisions of articles B and C of
this chapter shall apply to heritage trees. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-3: DEFINITIONS:
DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT OR dbh: See definition in section
5-3A-2 of this chapter.
HERITAGE TREE: Any tree having a dbh of twenty inches (20") or larger. (Ord.
1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-4: REMOVAL PROHIBITED:
Removal of any heritage tree is prohibited except as provided herein and except
as provided by articles B and C of this chapter. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   A heritage tree may be removed in case of emergency when the tree is
hazardous or dangerous to life or property with approval by any member of the
police or fire department or any Village official.
   B.   A representative of a public utility or a designated representative of
the Village may remove or prune trees pursuant to the provisions of section
5-3D-9 of this article.
   C.   1. Heritage tree removal as part of the development of a property shall
be reviewed and approved by the Village Forester. Tree removal requested in
conjunction with an application for a building permit shall request a tree
survey specifying the precise location, species, trunk diameter and condition
of all existing heritage trees on the property. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-6: TREE REMOVAL PERMIT PROCEDURE:
The Village Forester or Village Administrator may grant a permit for removal of
a heritage tree other than as provided for in section
5-3D-5 of this article. An applicant requesting removal of a heritage tree
shall:
   A.   Complete an application which shall include the following:
      1.   A plan showing all existing heritage trees and the location, type
and size of each heritage tree to be removed;
      2.   A brief statement of the reason for removal;
      3.   If the heritage tree or trees are proposed for removal because of
their condition, a certified arborist's determination of the state of health of
the heritage tree may be required by Village Forester;
      4.   If the applicant is not the property owner, written consent of the
owner of record of the property on which the heritage tree is located.
   B.   A permit shall not be issued for the removal of any heritage tree
unless the applicant provides a cash bond or letter of credit pursuant to the
provisions of subsection 5-3A-3B2 of this chapter, except such bond or letter
of credit shall not be required in the event the tree is damaged or injured by
natural causes and it is likely to die or become diseased as a result thereof.
   C.   The amount of the replacement guarantee shall be calculated pursuant to
the tree replacement formula in section
5-3A-4 of this chapter.
   D.   The Village Forester shall inspect the property and evaluate each
application. In determining whether to issue a permit, the Village Forester
shall base the decision on the following criteria:
      1.   The condition of the heritage tree or trees with respect to health,
imminent danger of falling, proximity to existing or proposed structures and
interference with utility services or public works projects;
      2.   The necessity to remove the heritage tree or trees for reasonable
development of the property;
      3.   The topography of the land and the effect of the removal of the
heritage tree on erosion, soil retention and diversion or increased flow of
stream waters;
      4.   The number of trees (both heritage trees and nonheritage trees)
existing in the neighborhood and the effect the removal would have upon shade,
privacy impact, scenic beauty and the general welfare of the Village as a
whole.
   E.   The Village Forester shall render a decision regarding the application
within ten (10) working days after the receipt of a complete application.
   F.   The Village Forester may grant the application with conditions
including a condition that replacement trees be planted or may deny the
application.
   G.   No permit fee is required. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-7: APPEALS:
Any decision of the Village Forester may be appealed by filing a notice or
letter of appeal with the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall place all such
appeals on the agenda of the next meeting of Environmental and Health
Commission occurring at least seven (7) calendar days after the filing of the
appeal and shall give the appealing party at least four (4) calendar days'
notice of the time and place of said hearing. The decision of the Environmental
and Health Commission shall be final. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-8: PROTECTION PLAN REQUIRED PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   A plan to protect heritage trees shall be submitted to the Village
prior to the issuance of a demolition or building permit for any property. The
plan shall ensure that the heritage tree, including its root system, is
adequately protected from potential harm during demolition, grading,
construction, excavation, trenching, and chemical materials storage, stormwater
runoff and erosion, and soil compaction. The plan shall be prepared and signed
by a certified arborist and approved by the Village Forester.
   B.   The Village Forester may require that a certified arborist be present
on the project site during grading or other construction activity that may
impact the health of the heritage tree(s) to be preserved.
   C.   Damage to any heritage tree during construction shall be immediately
reported to the Village Clerk or Deputy Village Clerk in order that proper
treatment may be administered. The cost of any treatment or repair shall be
borne by the applicant. Failure to notify the Village may result in the
issuance of a stop work order. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-9: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
Any public utility installing or maintaining any overhead wires or underground
wires or pipes or conduits in the vicinity of a heritage tree shall obtain
permission from the Village Forester before performing any work which may cause
injury to a heritage tree. The applicant shall provide a copy of this article
to all water, sewer, electrical and gas utilities operating within the
property. (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
5-3D-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   If the heritage tree was part of an approved tree survey any person who
removes or damages the heritage tree without permission shall pay a penalty
equal to twice the amount of the appraised value of the tree. The Village
Forester or a Village selected arborist shall estimate the replacement value of
the lost tree(s) in accordance with industry standards. The penalty shall
include the Village's costs incurred in performing the appraisal.
   B.   Any person removing any other heritage tree without a permit shall be
fined an amount equal to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per inch of
diameter as determined by the remaining stump.
   C.   In addition, any person violating any portion of this article that
results in the loss of a heritage tree shall be required to replace said tree
with a new tree or trees. The Village Forester shall determine the size and
location of replacement tree(s). (Ord. 1170, 10-28-2009)
CHAPTER 4
PONDS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Scope
5-4-2: Definition
5-4-3: Permit Requirements
5-4-4: Location; Lot Size
5-4-5: Design And Construction Requirements
5-4-6: Specific Design Of Embankment And Excavated Ponds
5-4-7: Maintenance Of Ponds And Artificial Lakes
5-4-8: Nuisance Conditions
5-4-9: Use Of Ponds And Artificial Lakes For Fire Protection
5-4-1: SCOPE:
This chapter establishes the minimum acceptable standards for the design and
construction of ponds and artificial lakes located in the Village when a dam
safety permit is not required by the Illinois department of natural resources/
office of water resources (IDNR/OWR). (1977 Code §
4-6-1; amd. 2004 Code)
5-4-2: DEFINITION:
A "pond" shall be a water impoundment made by constructing a dam or embankment
(hereinafter sometimes referred to as an "embankment pond"), or by excavation
(hereinafter referred to as an "excavated pond"). "Ponds" resulting from both
excavation and embankment shall be classified as "embankment ponds" where the
depth of water impounded against the embankment at spillway elevation is three
feet (3') or more. A dam safety permit shall be required from the Illinois
department of natural resources when an embankment pond meets the definition of
a "small dam" referenced in chapter 5 of this title. (1977 Code § 4-6-2; amd.
2004 Code)
5-4-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Expiration: Before commencing the installation of any
pond or artificial lake, a permit authorizing such work shall be obtained from
the Village Engineer. Such permit, if issued, shall expire nine (9) months from
the date of issue, unless the work covered thereby has been completed or the
permit is renewed by the Village Engineer.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Fee: There shall be a filing fee as established by section
1-8-5 of this code.
      2.   Plans, Specifications And Calculations:
         a.   There shall be two (2) copies of the plans, specifications and
calculations in sufficient detail showing the following:
            (1)   Plot plan showing existing and proposed contours and water
elevation, all drawn to scale.
            (2)   Pond or artificial lake dimensions, depths and volume in
gallons.
            (3)   A minimum of three (3) borings to the depth of ten feet (10')
indicating types of soil and water table.
            (4)   Changes in natural and existing storm drainage.
            (5)   Location of all wells, septic tanks and septic fields, roads
and waterways on the property and within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the
proposed pond or artificial lake.
            (6)   Delineation of regulatory floodplain boundaries.
            (7)   Details of overflow provisions into natural storm drainage
system.
         b.   Specifications, calculations and details shall be prepared and
signed by an Illinois licensed professional engineer.
   C.   Certificate Of Construction: Record drawings and a certificate that
construction has been completed according to the proposed design, and plans
shall be signed by a licensed professional engineer. Submittal of record
drawings shall be in accordance with section
9-1-7 of this code. (1977 Code § 4-6-3; amd. 2004 Code)
5-4-4: LOCATION; LOT SIZE:
   A.   Setback Requirements: Ponds and artificial lakes shall be classified as
accessory structures and shall conform to setbacks as required for such
structures in this title and the zoning ordinance of the Village. (1977 Code §
4-6-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Location Near Septic Systems: The shoreline at highest flood level
shall not be closer than fifty feet (50') from any portion of a septic field.
   C.   Lot Size:
      1.   Total area of the tract of land containing the pond must be not less
than twice the area of the pond at its highest flood level.
      2.   Where a dwelling is in existence on the tract which is to contain a
pond or artificial lake, the tract must contain not less than forty thousand
(40,000) square feet, and no dwelling shall be erected on a tract containing a
pond or artificial lake which is hereinafter constructed, unless the tract
contains not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet. (1977 Code § 4-6-4)
5-4-5: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Conditions: Site conditions shall be such that the peak rate of
runoff that can be expected to occur once in one hundred (100) years, pursuant
to ascertainable standards, can be safely passed through: (1977 Code § 4-6-5;
amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   A natural or constructed spillway; or
      2.   A combination of principal and emergency spillways.
   B.   Drainage Area:
      1.   The drainage area above the pond must be protected against erosion
to the extent that expected normal sedimentation will not shorten the planned
effective life of the structure.
      2.   The drainage area shall be large enough that surface runoff,
together with ground water flow, will maintain an adequate supply of water in
the pond. In determination of an "adequate" supply, consideration shall be
given to seepage and evaporation losses, and possible future needs of
additional water during the effective life of the pond. Multiple uses of the
pond must be considered, and maximum practical use of good sites should be
encouraged. The possibility of an extended drought for at least six (6) months
shall be considered in the determination of storage requirements.
   C.   Depth:
      1.   Embankment Ponds: Embankment ponds shall be at least ten feet (10')
deep over an area of approximately one thousand (1,000) square feet unless
underlying material limits the depth, in which case, the pond shall be at least
eight feet (8') deep over an area of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet.
      2.   Excavated Ponds: Excavated ponds must be at least eight feet (8')
deep over an area of one thousand (1,000) square feet unless underlying
material limits the depth, in which case, the pond shall be at least six feet
(6') deep over an area of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet. In all
cases, the pond shall be designed to store a dependable supply considering
beneficial use, sedimentation, runoff from drainage area, season of use and
evaporation and seepage losses. Maximum depth of the pond shall be posed in
legible letters not less than three inches (3") in height. (1977 Code § 4-6-5)
   D.   Foundation: The area on which an embankment is to be placed shall
consist of material that has sufficient bearing strength to support the
embankment without excessive consolidation. The foundation must consist of, or
be underlaid by impervious material, which will prevent excess passage of
water. Lines or sealing materials should be specified where site conditions
require extra precautions against leakage.
   E.   Safety Shelf: There shall be a safety shelf with an area of zero
percent slope a minimum of five feet (5') in width extending into a pond at a
depth of three feet (3') below the ordinary normal water level of the pond.
(1977 Code § 4-6-5; amd. 2004 Code)
5-4-6: SPECIFIC DESIGN OF EMBANKMENT AND EXCAVATED PONDS:
   A.   Embankment Ponds:
      1.   Foundation Cutoff ("Core-Trench"): A cutoff of relatively impervious
material shall be provided under the dam, unless a layer of such material
exists at the surface of the foundation. The cutoff shall be thick enough to
provide stability and extend along the centerline as required and be deep
enough to extend into a relatively impervious layer. The cutoff trench shall
have a bottom width and side slopes (minimum 1:1) to accommodate construction
and compaction equipment.
      2.   Earth Embankment:
         a.   Top Width: The minimum top width shall be eight feet (8') for
dams fifteen feet (15') or less in height and ten feet (10') for those over
fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Side Slopes: The combined upstream and downstream side slopes of
the settled embankment shall be not less than five horizontal to one vertical
(5:1) with neither slope steeper than three to one (3:1).
         c.   Freeboard: The minimum elevation of the top of the settled
embankment shall be one foot (1') above the water surface in the reservoir with
the emergency spillway flowing at design depth, but in all cases, the top of
the dam must be two feet (2') above the emergency spillway crest.
         d.   Compaction: The embankment shall be placed in six inch (6")
layers and compacted by heavy equipment such as rubber tired scrapers and
tractors or sheepfoot rollers.
      3.   Principal Spillway:
         a.   Pipe Conduit:
            (1)   A pipe conduit with needed appurtenances shall be placed
under or through the embankment/dam.
            (2)   The capacity of the pipe conduit shall be adequate to
discharge long duration, continuous or frequent flows without earth spillway
flow. The minimum diameter of the pipe shall be twelve inches (12").
         b.   Anti-Seep Collars:
            (1)   Anti-seep collars shall be installed around the pipe conduit,
drainpipes and water supply pipes within the normal saturation zone. The anti-
seep collars and their connections to the pipe shall be watertight.
            (2)   A minimum of one anti-seep collar shall be provided on
conduits of fifty feet (50') or less in length. On longer conduits, proper
collars shall be provided approximately every twenty five feet (25') in the
saturated zone. Collars will normally extend two feet (2') outside the pipe,
except for eight inch (8") pipe collars which may be only four feet (4')
square, and water supply pipe collars, two feet (2') square.
         c.   Trash And Safety Guards: Trash guards shall be installed unless
the design technician determines that a trash guard is not needed. Vertical
risers larger than fifteen inches (15") in diameter shall have a safety guard
installed.
         d.   Outlets: All pipes thirty inches (30") or larger shall be dropped
with flowline elevation two (2) to four feet (4') above the outlet channel.
Smaller pipes shall be dropped unless the Village determines the drop is not
needed.
         e.   Drainpipe: A drainpipe shall be installed with a suitable valve
where needed for pond management. Ponds for fish production with three (3)
acres or more of surface area will be equipped with a pipe large enough to
drain the pond in a fourteen (14) day period. A pumping system of adequate
size, which is available, will meet this requirement.
      4.   Spillways: The minimum capacity of natural or constructed emergency
spillways shall be that required to pass the "100-year" storm flow. Emergency
spillways shall be designed for safe velocities through the control channel and
a reasonable distance below. The minimum size spillway is ten foot (10') bottom
width with three to one (3:1) side slopes. Wing dikes or shaped exit channel
shall be constructed of such materials as needed to ensure that spillway flows
do not cause erosion or damage the earth embankments. (1977 Code § 4-6-6; amd.
2004 Code)
   B.   Excavated Ponds:
      1.   Water Supply: The supply of water may be entirely from surface
runoff, from subsurface sources, from an intermittent or continuous stream or
from a combination of these sources.
      2.   Side Slopes: Side slopes of excavated ponds shall be such that they
will be stable and shall not be steeper than three horizontal to one vertical
(3:1).
      3.   Inlet Protection: Where surface water enters the pond, the side
slopes shall be protected against erosion.
      4.   Specifications:
         a.   The completed excavation shall conform to the lines, grades, and
elevations shown on the plans as nearly as can be achieved by proper operation
of the excavating equipment.
         b.   The material excavated from the pond shall be deposited as
follows so that its weight will not endanger the stability of the pond side
slopes and will not be washed back into the pond by rainfall:
            (1)   Uniformly spread to a height not exceeding three feet (3'),
with the top graded to a continuous slope away from the pond, minimum slope on
pond side of three to one (3:1); or
            (2)   Uniformly placed or shaped reasonably well with wide slopes
assuming the natural angle of repose for the excavated material but not less
than three to one (3:1) behind a berm width equal to the depth of the pond but
no less than twelve feet (12'). (1977 Code § 4-6-7)
5-4-7: MAINTENANCE OF PONDS AND ARTIFICIAL LAKES:
The owner of each pond or artificial lake hereafter constructed in the Village
shall be responsible for maintaining the pond or artificial lake in such
condition that the specifications contained herein for design and safety
required of a newly constructed pond or artificial lake shall be substantially
complied with at all times after initial construction. (1977 Code § 4-6-9)
5-4-8: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
No pond or artificial lake shall be constructed, permitted or maintained which
constitutes a public nuisance, attractive nuisance, or health hazard. (1977
Code § 4-6-10)
5-4-9: USE OF PONDS AND ARTIFICIAL LAKES FOR FIRE PROTECTION:
All artificial lakes within the Village limits will be water sources for the
fire protection districts and, as such, will be available to the fire
protection district personnel in times of emergency. The Village Clerk will
notify the applicable fire protection districts of the location of all ponds
and artificial lakes within the Village limits, together with their water
quantities and access to public roads. (1977 Code § 4-6-11)
CHAPTER 5
DEVELOPMENT IN WATERSHED AREAS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Authority
5-5-2: Purpose
5-5-3: Adoption By Reference
5-5-4: Permit Application Fee Schedule
5-5-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to Lake County by
55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1062 (County), by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-30-2 and 5/11-31-2 and 615
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq., and 5/18g. The administration and
enforcement shall be performed by the Village. (Ord. 855, 11-20-2000; amd. 2004
Code)
5-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable rules and regulations
for development in order to:
   A.   Meet the requirements of the Rivers, Lakes and Streams Act, 615
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g, effective November 18, 1987;
   B.   Prevent additional harm due to periodic flooding including loss of life
and property and threats and inconveniences to public health, safety and
welfare;
   C.   Assure that new development does not increase flood and drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   D.   Create no new financial burden on the taxpayer for flood control
projects, repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and for
flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   Protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources;
   F.   Protect buildings and improvements to buildings from flood damage to
the greatest extent possible;
   G.   Conserve the natural hydrologic, hydraulic, water quality and other
beneficial functions of flood prone areas, regulatory floodplains and wetlands;
   H.   Prevent additional disruption of the economy and governmental services
due to stormwater and flood drainage;
   I.   Maintain eligibility of the Village in the National Flood Insurance
Program by equaling or exceeding its requirements and thus make Federally
subsidized flood insurance available at reduced rates;
   J.   Comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program codified as 44 CFR 59 - 79, as amended. (Ord. 855, 11-20-2000)
5-5-3: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
The Lake County watershed development ordinance, as most recently amended by
the County of Lake on October 13, 2020, is hereby adopted by reference and is
in full force and effect within the Village of North Barrington and is found in
its own compilation. (Ord. 1312, 11-20-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 1-20-2021)
5-5-4: PERMIT APPLICATION FEE SCHEDULE:
Standard review fee: Six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00).
Trust and agency account deposits: In addition to the standard review fees,
each applicant for a watershed development permit shall deposit with the
Village trust and agency account, pursuant to section
1-8-5 of this Code, such sum as reasonably estimated by the Village Engineer to
be appropriate to fulfill the objectives of said section
1-8-5 of this Code. (Ord. 1216, 1-25-2012)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
USE OF PARKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-1-1: Prohibited Acts
6-1-2: Restricted Acts And Conditions
6-1-3: Permit To Use Village Parks
6-1-4: Hours Of Operation Of Village Parks
6-1-5: Cleanup Of Areas Used
6-1-6: Violation; Penalties
6-1-1: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or civic or social
group using any Village park or any Village right of way or any other Village
property either to perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
   A.   Damage To Property:
      1.   Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove any tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or paving material,
signs, fences, playground or exercising equipment or any other Village property
or utilities, whether temporary or permanent whatsoever, either real or
personal. (1977 Code § 8-7-12)
      2.   Cut, break, or in any way deface any tree, shrub, plant, turf, or
any of the buildings, fences or bridges, lamps or posts, or other structures or
property within any Village park or on any Village right of way or on any other
Village property. (1977 Code § 8-7-9)
   B.   Pollution Of Water:
      1.   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
water of any pond, lake, stream, marsh, or natural impoundment area or drainage
ditch in or adjacent to any Village park, right of way or other Village
property or in any tributary or in any drain flowing into such water, or in, on
or upon any Village park, right of way or other Village property, any matter or
things, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said
water or the interference with drainage.
      2.   Discharge or drain any stormwater into the water of any pond, lake,
stream, marsh, or natural impoundment area or drainage ditch in, on or adjacent
to any Village park, right of way or other Village property or any tributary or
drain flowing into such water, or in, on or upon any Village park, right of way
or other Village property other than in the course of its natural drainage.
(1977 Code § 8-7-12)
   C.   Dumping Garbage, Refuse And Sewage: Deposit, dump, throw, or place any
rubbish, including tree, shrub or grass trimmings, or litter or junk of any
kind, or discharge or drain any solid or liquid, other than stormwaters in the
general course of their natural drainage, in or upon any part of any Village
park or upon any Village right of way or in or upon any other Village property.
Paper, garbage, or refuse matter shall not be so deposited except in
receptacles provided for that purpose. (1977 Code § 8-7-7)
   D.   Liquor; Glass Containers: Bring within, sell, give away or drink any
intoxicating liquors in any Village park or on any Village right of way or on
any other Village property; provided, however, that drinking of alcoholic
liquor by adults shall be permitted in a Village park during the hours when
such park is being utilized for a Village sponsored event and an event
sanctioned by the Village if the liquor control commissioner has specifically
authorized the drinking of such alcoholic liquor at such event. No glass
bottles or containers shall be allowed in any such locations referred to above.
(Ord. 1143, 5-28-2008)
   E.   Advertisements: Display any placard or advertisement of any kind in any
Village park, nor distribute, cast, throw or place any handbill, pamphlet,
circular, advertisement, or notice of any kind, nor post, stencil or otherwise
affix any notice or bills, advertisements or other papers upon any structure or
thing in any Village park or on any Village right of way or on any other
Village property. (1977 Code § 8-7-8)
   F.   Disturbing The Peace; Profanity: Disturb the peace, or use any profane,
obscene or blasphemous language.
   G.   Endangering Others: Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or
act.
   H.   Interfering With Others: Prevent or interfere with any person lawfully
using any Village park or any Village right of way or other Village property.
   I.   Assault, Battery, Fighting: Commit any assault, battery or engage in
fighting. (1977 Code § 8-7-12)
   J.   Presence In Restricted Areas: Enter upon any portion of any Village
park or other Village property where persons are prohibited from going by
direction of the Superintendent of Parks as indicated by a posted sign or
notice or by a verbal order directed to such person or persons. (1977 Code § 8-
7-4)
   K.   Violation Of Rules And Regulations: Violate any rule for the use of any
Village park, right of way or any other Village property made or approved by
the corporate authorities. (1977 Code § 8-7-12; amd. 2004 Code)
6-1-2: RESTRICTED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Vehicles: No person, other than authorized personnel, shall bring or
use any vehicle, including, but not limited to, motorcycles, motorbikes,
minibikes, or mopeds, upon any portion of any Village property except as
designated by the Superintendent of Parks. This subsection shall not apply to
Village rights of way. (1977 Code § 8-7-1)
   B.   Sales Of Merchandise: No person shall offer or exchange for sale any
article or thing, or do any hawking, peddling, or soliciting, or buy or offer
to buy any article or thing, or take up any collection, or solicit to receive
contributions of money or anything of value in any Village park or on any
Village right of way or on any other Village property, except in compliance
with title 3, chapter 2 of this code and only when authority to do so has been
granted by the Village Board of Trustees. (1977 Code § 8-7-2)
   C.   Public Meetings Or Assemblies: No person shall call or hold any public
meeting or assembly, or give any concert or public entertainment of any kind in
any Village park or on any Village right of way or on any other Village
property without the express consent of the Village Board of Trustees. (1977
Code § 8-7-3)
   D.   Fires: No person shall light or make use of any fire in any Village
park or on any Village right of way or road or on any other Village property,
except portable barbecue equipment or except in such portions thereof and at
such locations as may be indicated by the Superintendent of Parks for such
purposes and then only under such regulations as are prescribed by him. (1977
Code § 8-7-5)
   E.   Animals: It shall be unlawful to bring any animal into any Village park
or onto any other Village property without the expressed consent of the Park
Superintendent. (1977 Code § 8-7-12)
6-1-3: PERMIT TO USE VILLAGE PARKS:
   A.   Permit Required: All persons using any Village park shall be required
to have a permit which will be issued by the Village Clerk.
   B.   Registration Of Family Members; Vehicle Sticker Required: Each family
member shall be registered, and each car shall display a North Barrington
vehicle sticker.
   C.   Representative Of Civil And Social Groups: A permit will be issued to
the leader of each civic or social group.
   D.   Permit Fees:
 
Resident family                          Included in the vehicle sticker
Nonresident family                        $50.00
Cuba Township family                      25.00
Individual nonresident, age 62 or older   1.00
 
   E.   Term Of Permit: The period for which the permit is valid shall be the
same as that of the current vehicle sticker. (1977 Code § 8-7-13)
6-1-4: HOURS OF OPERATION OF VILLAGE PARKS:
All parks owned and controlled by the Village shall be open daily to the public
from sunrise to sunset. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than
authorized personnel conducting official business, to occupy or be present in
said parks during any hours which the parks are not open to the public. Any
section or part of parks may be declared closed to the public by the
Superintendent of Parks at any time, and for any interval of time, either
temporarily, or at a regularly stated time. (1977 Code § 8-7-10; amd. 2004
Code)
6-1-5: CLEANUP OF AREAS USED:
Each person, firm or corporation, or civic or social group using any Village
park or other Village property and grounds shall clean up all debris,
extinguish all fires when such are permitted and leave the premises in good
order and in a neat, sanitary condition. (1977 Code § 8-7-11)
6-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation, or civic or social group who violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined a minimum of fifty dollars
($50.00) but not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense; provided, however, the minimum fine for any violation of subsection 6-
1-1A1, A2, B1 or C and section
6-1-5 of this chapter shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). (1977 Code § 8-7-
14; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Prohibitions
6-2-2: Additional Prohibitions Involving Dogs
6-2-3: Dangerous, Vicious Animals
6-2-4: Animal Breeding Prohibited
6-2-5: Hunting And Trapping
6-2-6: Rabies Control
6-2-7: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-2-8: Penalties
6-2-1: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Cruelty: No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the Village in any
way. Any person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads, or abandons any
animal shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this code. (1977 Code §
8-1-1)
   B.   Noisy Animals: It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which
disturbs the peace by excessive and unwarranted noises at any time of the day
or night. (1977 Code § 8-1-4)
   C.   Diseased Animals 1 : No domestic animals afflicted with a contagious or
infectious disease shall be allowed to run at large or be exposed in any public
place whereby the health of human or beast may be affected, nor shall such
diseased animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof,
except under the supervision of the Health Officer. (1977 Code § 8-1-6)
   D.   Livestock 2 :
      1.   Running At Large: It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horse,
swine, sheep, goats, or poultry to run at large in the Village. Any such animal
running at large in any public place in the Village shall be impounded in the
manner provided by this chapter.
      2.   Tying To Graze Or Feed: It shall be unlawful to picket or tie any
such animal in any of the streets of the Village for the purpose of grazing or
feeding. (1977 Code § 8-1-5)
   E.   Animal Houses; Certain Animals Prohibited 3 : No person shall cause or
allow any stable or place where any animal is or may be kept to become unclean
or unwholesome, and it shall be unlawful to keep any live goats, swine, pigs,
poultry or cattle in the Village except as provided in the zoning ordinance.
(1977 Code § 8-1-7)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-2-2B of this code.
2 2. See also subsection 6-2-1E of this chapter.
3 3. See also subsection 6-2-1D of this chapter.
6-2-2: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS INVOLVING DOGS:
   A.   Running At Large: Every person who owns, keeps, or harbors a dog and
causes or permits such dog to run at large, other than on the premises of such
person, whereby off the premises of such person within the Village such dog
shall menace, pursue, chase, worry, wound, bite or kill a person or a domestic
animal or destroy or injure plant life or personal property, shall be guilty of
a violation of this chapter, and the offending animal is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be apprehended and impounded under the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Unattended Dogs: Every person who owns, keeps, or harbors a dog and
causes or permits such dog to be unattended, other than on the premises of such
person, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter, and said dog
shall be apprehended and impounded under the provisions of this chapter. It
shall be a defense to any such violation for the owner to show reasonable care,
and that the violation occurred by the nature of dog; however, any costs of
impounding shall be paid by the owner prior to the release of the dog so
impounded.
   C.   Failure To Remove Excrement: Every person who owns, keeps, or harbors a
dog and who shall fail to remove excrement deposited by his dog upon any
premises, public or private, other than the premises of such person, shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   D.   Complaint Required: Subsections A, B, and C of this section are only in
effect if a formal complaint is filed with or by the law enforcement agency.
(1977 Code §
8-2-3; amd. 2004 Code)
6-2-3: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited; Permit For Parades: It shall be unlawful
to permit any dangerous animal or any vicious animal of any kind to run at
large within the Village. Exhibitions or parades of animals that are ferae
naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a permit
from the law enforcement agency. (1977 Code §
8-1-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Authority To Kill Dangerous Animals:
      1.   The law enforcement officials or other authorized Village official
or employee is authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind when it is
necessary for the protection of any person or property. (1977 Code §
8-1-3; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   It shall be lawful for the law enforcement officials or other
authorized Village official or employee to kill any vicious dog at large within
the limits of the Village which cannot safely be taken up and impounded. (1977
Code §
8-2-5; amd. 2004 Code)
6-2-4: ANIMAL BREEDING PROHIBITED:
The raising or breeding of animals including, but not limited to, dogs, cats
and other household pets, for the purpose of sale, trade or donation, or for
any commercial purpose, is hereby prohibited on any lot or adjoining lots
having a common owner; except, that not more than one litter of animals
otherwise permitted by this code shall be allowed in any household during any
twenty four (24) month period. (1977 Code § 8-1-8)
6-2-5: HUNTING AND TRAPPING:
   A.   Hunting Prohibited: Hunting by guns of any kind (including rifles,
shotguns, pistols, blowguns and air rifles) and by bows and arrows is hereby
prohibited within the Village 1 .
   B.   Trapping And Related Activities Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to place, set, use or maintain within
the Village a leghold trap or one of similar construction or a body gripping
trap or one of similar construction.
      2.   The use of humane cage, box or stovepipe type traps shall be
permitted, provided that:
         a.   It shall be unlawful to fail to visit and remove all animals from
such traps staked out, set, used, tendered, placed or maintained at least once
each calendar day.
         b.   It shall be unlawful to trap or attempt to trap within the
Village animals with any cage, box or stovepipe trap designed to take more than
one animal at a single setting.
      3.   It is unlawful to use, maintain or possess within the Village any
snare trap or snare like device, deadfall, net or pit trap to take any animal.
      4.   It is unlawful for any person to trap or allow a dog to hunt within
or upon the property of another within the Village, or upon waters flowing over
or standing on the land of another within the Village, without first obtaining
permission from the owner or occupant of the property.
      5.   It is unlawful to use spears, gigs, hooks or any like device to kill
or capture any animal within the Village.
      6.   It is unlawful to use poisons, chemicals, smoke or explosives to
kill or capture any animal within the Village.
      7.   It is unlawful to trap adjacent to or near any peat, grass, brush or
other flammable substance when it is burning within the Village.
      8.   It is unlawful to kill or capture, pursue or intentionally harass or
disturb in any manner any animal within the Village by the use of or with the
aid of any vehicle or conveyance.
      9.   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, this
section shall not be construed to prohibit:
         a.   The killing or trapping by any means of any animal within the
Village by any law enforcement officer or other authorized employee of the
Village or county or state in the performance of their respective duties or by
any other person authorized by any such law enforcement officer or employee; or
         b.   The killing or trapping of by any means of rats, mice or other
vermin within any buildings; or
         c.   Fishing. (Ord. 1014, 9-22-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-3-6 of this title, discharging weapons prohibited.
6-2-6: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Inoculation Of Dogs Required: Every person who owns, keeps, or harbors
a dog four (4) months of age or older shall, each year, cause said dog to be
inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and provide the dog with a
collar or harness and attach thereto an official rabies vaccination tag which
shall be worn by the dog at all times. However, if the vaccine used is one
recognized for a three (3) year period of immunity and the dog is over twelve
(12) months of age at the time of inoculation, the interval between
inoculations may be extended to three (3) years. (1977 Code §
8-2-1)
   B.   Biting Animals:
      1.   Definition: "Has been bitten", as used in this chapter, means has
been seized with the teeth or jaws or scratched by the teeth or nails or
wounded or pierced, and includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion
of the skin. (1977 Code §
8-2-2)
      2.   Procedure In Case Of Animal Bite:
         a.   Notice Of Animal Bite: Whenever any dog or other animal has
bitten a human, the owner of said dog or other animal shall immediately notify
the law enforcement officer who shall order the animal held on the owner's
premises for observation or shall have it impounded for a period of ten (10)
days commencing from twenty four (24) hours of the biting incident. (1977 Code
§
8-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
         b.   Unvaccinated Animals: If any dog or cat is not currently
vaccinated against rabies, the animal will be impounded in accordance with
state statutes. The owner will then be liable for payment of an inoculation
fee, plus the cost of the animal's stay at the pound, and the owner will be
subject to court citation 1 .
         c.   Vaccinated Animals That Bite: The owner of a dog or cat currently
vaccinated against rabies may keep the animal at home under strict confinement
and away from the public, and may take his animal to a licensed veterinarian to
be examined on the first day, fifth day, and tenth day of a ten (10) day
observation period. If the dog or cat bites again during the confinement
period, it will be impounded for the full ten (10) day period commencing from
the date of the second bite. Owners not returning their animals for followup
examination on the appropriate dates will be in violation and subject to court
citation 2 . (1977 Code §
8-2-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-4 of this code.
2 2. See section
  1-4-4 of this code.
6-2-7: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority To Impound:
      1.   The law enforcement officers or other authorized Village officials
or employees shall apprehend, impound or take other appropriate measures upon
any violation of this chapter in the presence of said officials or employees or
upon any written complaint alleging such violation.
      2.   The Village Health Officer or her designated representative is
authorized to take appropriate action to apprehend, impound and dispose of any
diseased dog or other animal to prevent the communication and spread of
contagion or infection.
   B.   Impoundment Procedures: The law enforcement officials shall arrange for
the impounding of each animal apprehended under the provisions of this chapter
and shall take reasonable measures to identify, locate and notify the owner of
any animal so impounded.
   C.   Redemption Procedures And Requirements: Unless it shall be necessary to
destroy any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, the owner or
keeper thereof shall be permitted to redeem such animal within ten (10)
business days of the date of apprehension by paying to the Village Clerk or his
designated representative all costs relative to the impounding and keeping of
said animal, including the cost of keeping said animal, the cost of
advertising, if any, and veterinary fees. If said animal has not been
inoculated for the prevention of rabies as required by state statute and the
provisions of this chapter, then, prior to the release of said animal, the
Village may require adequate proof that said inoculation shall be undertaken
promptly.
   D.   Disposal Of Unredeemed Animal: It shall be the duty of the poundkeeper
to humanely dispose of any animal impounded which is not redeemed from the
pound within ten (10) business days from date of apprehension. (1977 Code §
8-2-4; amd. 2004 Code)
6-2-8: PENALTIES 1 :
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of section
6-2-2,
6-2-6 or
6-2-7 of this chapter, or neglecting to comply with any of the provisions
thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code §
8-2-6; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-4-4 of this code for citation provisions relative to dogs
  and cats.
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS AND CRIMINAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
6-3-2: Offenses Involving The Person
6-3-2-1: Assault, Battery, Fighting
6-3-2-2: Disorderly Conduct
6-3-2-3: Disturbing Assemblies
6-3-2-4: Unlawful Assemblies
6-3-3: Offenses Involving Property
6-3-3-1: Damage To Property
6-3-3-2: Trespassing
6-3-4: Offenses Involving Public Health And Safety
6-3-4-1: Throwing Missiles
6-3-4-2: Barbed Wire, Electric Fences
6-3-4-3: False Alarms
6-3-5: Offenses Involving Village Officers And Employees
6-3-5-1: Interference With Officers And Employees
6-3-5-2: Impersonating Officers And Employees
6-3-5-3: Resisting Arrest
6-3-6: Discharging Weapons
6-3-7: Responsibility For Minors
6-3-8: Penalties
6-3-1: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois criminal code 1 , are hereby adopted by the Village.
Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter,
and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this code if proceeded hereunder. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
6-3-2: OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PERSON:
6-3-2-1: ASSAULT, BATTERY, FIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any assault or battery or to
fight in any public place in the Village. (1977 Code §
8-6-2)
6-3-2-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to provoke, make or aid in
making a breach of the peace; or
   B.   Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or
display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger of a
breach of the peace or imminent threat of violence; or (1977 Code §
8-6-7)
   C.   Refuses or fails to cease and desist any peaceful conduct or activity
likely to produce a breach of the peace where there is an imminent threat of
violence and where the law enforcement officials have made all reasonable
efforts to protect the otherwise peaceful conduct and activity and have
requested that said conduct and activity be stopped and explained the request
if there is time; or (1977 Code §
8-6-7; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known by him to
be a peace officer under circumstances where three (3) or more persons are
committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, which acts are
likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance or alarm;
or
   E.   Assembles with three (3) or more persons for the purpose of using force
or violence to disturb the public peace; or
   F.   Appeals in any public place manifestly under the influence of alcohol,
narcotics or other drugs, not therapeutically administered, to the degree that
he may endanger himself or other persons or property, or annoy persons in his
vicinity; or
   G.   Carries in a threatening or menacing manner, without authority of law,
any pistol, revolver, dagger, razor, dangerous knife, stiletto, knuckles,
slingshot, an object containing noxious or deleterious liquid, gas or substance
or other dangerous weapon or conceals said weapon on or about the person or any
vehicle 1 ; or
   H.   Trespasses on the property of another 2 ; or
   I.   Is on any Village, school district, park district, county or state
property without permission or in violation of the rules and regulations of the
Village, school district, park district, county or state, or is loitering on
any publicly dedicated street adjacent to the Village, school district, park
district, county or state property. (1977 Code §
8-6-7)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-3-6 of this chapter for discharging weapons.
2 2. See also section
  6-3-3-2 of this chapter.
6-3-2-3: DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the Village. (1977 Code §
8-6-9)
6-3-2-4: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful to collect, gather, or be a member of any disorderly
crowd, or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful purpose. (1977 Code §
8-6-10)
6-3-3: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY:
6-3-3-1: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to wilfully or maliciously injure, deface,
destroy or interfere with any property belonging to the Village, other
governmental body, or any private person. (1977 Code § 8-6-15)
6-3-3-2: TRESPASSING 1 :
   A.   Trespassing Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within the Village upon either public or
private property. (1977 Code §
8-5-1)
   B.   Definition; Prevention: Without constituting any limitation upon the
provisions of subsection A of this section, any of the following acts by any
person, firm or corporation shall be deemed to constitute trespasses in
violation of the provisions of said subsection A, and appropriate action may be
taken hereunder at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any
violation or violations of this section: (1977 Code §
8-5-2)
      1.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any
owners or occupant thereof or by a law enforcement official; or
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of any entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owners or occupant thereof or by a law enforcement official; or
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owners or
occupant thereof, or by a law enforcement official. (1977 Code §
8-5-2; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-3-2-2H of this chapter.
6-3-4: OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY:
6-3-4-1: THROWING MISSILES:
It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any street, alley
or public place; it shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, nails,
tacks or other similar articles on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place in the Village. (1977 Code §
8-6-3)
6-3-4-2: BARBED WIRE, ELECTRIC FENCES:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
part of barbed wire, or with any similar materials designed to cause injury to
any person, or any wire charged with electrical current within the Village,
except:
   A.   Where such fence is used for containment of livestock in approved
areas; and
   B.   That two (2) strands of barbed wire may be used in conjunction with a
permissible open fence constructed for security purposes on property zoned R-
1 as defined in the zoning ordinance of the Village. (1977 Code §
8-6-6)
6-3-4-3: FALSE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any false
alarm of fire or false call for assistance from the law enforcement agency.
(1977 Code § 8-6-11; amd. 2004 Code)
6-3-5: OFFENSES INVOLVING VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
6-3-5-1: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of the
Village while engaged in the duties of his office or employment. (1977 Code §
8-6-12)
6-3-5-2: IMPERSONATING OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate without lawful authority any
Village officer or employee. (1977 Code § 8-6-13)
6-3-5-3: RESISTING ARREST:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use force to resist an arrest which he
knows is being made either by a peace officer or by a private person summoned
and directed by a peace officer to make the arrest, even if he believes that
the arrest is unlawful and the arrest in fact is unlawful. (1977 Code § 8-6-14)
6-3-6: DISCHARGING WEAPONS 1 :
   A.   Discharge Prohibited: No person shall discharge or set off a rifle of
any type, make or description within the Village, and no person shall discharge
or set off any shotgun, pistol, revolver, or any other gun or device that
discharges projectiles by explosive substance, by air or gas compression or by
mechanical means, including air guns, within the Village. (1977 Code §
8-3-1)
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to sheriffs,
coroners, constables, members of the law enforcement agency, or other peace
officers engaged in the discharge of their official duties, or to any person
summoned by any such officers to assist in making arrests or preserving the
peace while such person so summoned is engaged in assisting such officer, or to
any person acting in the lawful defense of any person or property. (1977 Code §
8-3-2; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 6-3-2-2G of this chapter for additional weapons
  regulations; see subsection 6-2-6A of this title, hunting prohibited.
6-3-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act 2 .
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years but not yet eighteen
(18) years of age. (1977 Code § 8-6-16; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Responsibility For Minors:
      1.   In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the parent or legal
guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian
shall be presumed to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility,
and said minor shall be deemed to have acted with the knowledge and permission
of the parent or guardian in violation of this code, whenever such minor shall:
         a.   Be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful or malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; or
         b.   Have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another governmental
agency resulting from an admission of guilt or violation of any ordinance, law
or statute which prohibits wilful or malicious acts causing injury to a person
or property. (1977 Code § 8-6-16)
      2.   However, said parent or legal guardian shall first receive from the
law enforcement official or other authorized Village official a written notice
following said minor's adjudication or nonjudicial sanction, by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service, and the acts
of said minor in violation of any ordinance, law or statute prohibiting wilful
or malicious acts causing injury to a person or property which cause such
presumption of failure to exercise proper parental responsibility shall have
occurred within one year following receipt of said written notice. (1977 Code §
8-6-16; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
6-3-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, including any parent who
has failed to exercise proper parental responsibility as provided for herein,
shall pay the actual damages resulting therefrom, but not exceeding two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), the limit provided by 740 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 115/5, the parental responsibility law, and, in addition,
shall be fined as provided herein. (1977 Code § 8-6-16; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Pyrotechnic Displays
6-4-3: Application
6-4-4: Prohibition
6-4-5: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this Chapter 4 are defined as follows:
ACT: The Pyrotechnic Distributor and Operator Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 227/1 et
seq.
BATFE: The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Enforcement.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY (OR CONSUMER DISPLAY): The detonation, ignition or
deflagration or consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible effect.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Products
Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R. Parts 1500 and 1507 and classified
as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the U.S. Department of Transportation under 49
C.F.R. 172.101. Consumer fireworks do not include snake or glow work pellets;
smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as "party poppers," "booby traps,"
"snappers," "trick matches" and "cigarette loads;" auto burglar alarms;
sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of explosive
compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come
in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper
or plastic caps that contain less than twenty hundredths grains of explosive
mixture; the same and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: The individual with overall responsibility for the
safety, setup, discharge and supervision of a pyrotechnic display.
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition or deflagration of display
fireworks or flame effects to produce the visual or audible effect of an
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged. (Ord. 2020-21, 6-17-2020)
6-4-2: PYROTECHNIC DISPLAYS:
   A.   No pyrotechnic display shall be conducted in the Village without a
pyrotechnic display permit issued by the Board of Trustees. Such permit shall
not be issued to any person who is not licensed under the Act as a lead
pyrotechnic operator supervising the display. Such pyrotechnic display shall be
conducted in accordance with the Act and its administrative rules (41 Ill.
Admin Code 235).
   B.   All pyrotechnic displays permitted in the Village shall be performed in
compliance with the rules and regulations adopted by the Office of the State
Fire Marshall and in accordance with the Act and the Fireworks Use Act (425
ILCS 35/1 et seq.). (Ord. 2020-21, 6-17-2020)
6-4-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   At least twenty (20) business days prior to the pyrotechnic display
being conducted, the lead pyrotechnic operator shall apply for a permit from
the Village, which shall be in writing and signed by the applicant. The
application and the following documents shall be submitted to the Village for
approval by the Board of Trustees:
      1.   A current BATFE license for distribution of display fireworks;
      2.   Proof of a current United States Department of Transportation
(USDOT) Identification Number;
      3.   Proof of a current USDOT Hazardous Materials Registration Number;
and
      4.   Proof of insurance coverage for General Liability of one million
dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence with a two million dollar ($2,000,000)
aggregate, an additional one million dollar ($1,000,000) excess umbrella
policy, Worker's Compensation with statutory levels and employer's liability of
five hundred thousand ($500,000) per occurrence. All Certificates of Insurance
must have the Village of North Barrington listed as an additional insured.
      5.   Application fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   The Board of Trustees may waive the permit fee for not-for-profit
entities.
   C.   Prior to the issuance of any permits, the full submittal package shall
be forwarded for review and approved by the Fire Commissioner and the fire
protection district that has jurisdiction where the display will be conducted.
(Ord. 2020-21, 6-17-2020)
6-4-4: PROHIBITION:
No person shall sell, offer for sale, possess, use or explode any illegal
fireworks as defined in the State Fire Marshal Code. In addition, consumer
displays are prohibited. (Ord. 2020-21, 6-17-2020)
6-4-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this Chapter
4 shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750) per violation plus court
costs. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   B.   In addition to any other applicable penalty, any person, firm, co-
partnership or corporation who violates any pyrotechnic display permit shall
not be entitled to apply for a pyrotechnic display permit during the remainder
of the year in which the violation occurred and during the ensuing calendar
year. (Ord. 2020-21, 6-17-2020)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Vehicle Code Adopted
7-1-2: Amendments To Code
7-1-3: Citations
7-1-4: Penalties
7-1-1: VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Provisions Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference as part of
this title 7, the following provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes, the same being a public record of the state,
subject to deletions, additions, amendments or modifications hereinafter set
forth:
      1.   Chapters 1, 3, 6, 9, 11, 12, 13A, 13B, 15 and 16 in their entirety.
      2.   Snowmobile registration and safety act 1 .
      3.   Child passenger protection act 2 .
   B.   Exclusions: Excluded from adoption by reference and hereby deleted are
chapters 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 14, 17, 18A, 18B and 18C and the miscellaneous laws
of the Illinois vehicle code 3 , except as specified above. (1977 Code §
10-1-1; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.
2 2. 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-1401 et seq.
7-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The amendments, modifications, and/or additions, as found in the following
chapters of this title, are hereby made in the provisions in the Illinois motor
vehicle code otherwise herein adopted by reference. To the extent such
amendments, modifications and/or additions or any other provisions of this code
are inconsistent with the provisions of the Illinois vehicle code herein
adopted, the more restrictive and specific regulation shall apply. (1977 Code §
10-1-1; amd. 2004 Code)
7-1-3: CITATIONS 1 :
Any citation to the above and foregoing provisions shall be designated as set
forth in the Illinois vehicle code and prefixed by reference to title 7 of this
code. (1977 Code §
10-1-1)
 
Notes
1 4. See section 1-4-4 of this code for citations dealing with vehicle license
  stickers and parking violations.
7-1-4: PENALTIES:
Every person convicted of violating any provision of section
7-1-1 of this chapter (the Illinois motor vehicle code, as incorporated by
reference into this code by the foregoing said section
7-1-1) shall be punishable by one or more of the following dispositions as are
authorized for such offense by reference to the Illinois motor vehicle code and
as may be determined by the court:
   A.   Such maximum fine as authorized by reference to the Illinois motor
vehicle code. (1977 Code §
10-1-2)
   B.   A term of incarceration, either periodic or continuous, in a penal
institution other than the penitentiary as authorized by reference to the
Illinois motor vehicle code. (1977 Code §
10-1-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   A term of supervision or conditional discharge as authorized by
reference to the Illinois motor vehicle code and the Illinois unified code of
corrections 1 . (1977 Code §
10-1-2)
 
Notes
1 1. 730 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE LICENSES 1
Reserved by Ord. 2022-14, 12-21-2022
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 1-4-4 of this code for citation provisions relative to vehicle license
  stickers.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Application Of Provisions
7-3-2: Authority To Direct Traffic
7-3-3: Obedience To, Eluding Law Enforcement Officials
7-3-4: Fire Department Vehicles
7-3-5: Obstructing Traffic And Public Ways
7-3-6: Right Of Way
7-3-7: Speed Restrictions
7-3-8: Funeral And Other Processions
7-3-9: Clinging To Moving Vehicles
7-3-10: Transporting Alcoholic Liquor
7-3-11: Unlawful Use Of Or Damage To Highways
7-3-12: Display Of State Registration Plates
7-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon the
highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the
United States, the state, the Village or any county, city, town, district or
any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this title
and subject to such specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles. (1977 Code §
10-10-1)
7-3-2: AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
   A.   Law Enforcement Agency: Law enforcement officials, or such authorized
officers or crossing guards as are assigned or authorized by the law
enforcement agency, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws and regulations; provided, that in
the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, law enforcement officials may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and regulations.
   B.   Fire Department: Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of
a fire, may direct or assist the law enforcement officials in directing traffic
thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
   C.   Unauthorized Persons: It shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the law enforcement agency to direct or attempt to direct
traffic. (1977 Code § 10-8-7; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-3: OBEDIENCE TO, ELUDING LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Obedience To Law Enforcement Officials: No person shall wilfully fail
or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any law enforcement
official invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(1977 Code §
10-10-1; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Fleeing, Attempting To Elude Law Enforcement Officials:
      1.   Fleeing, Attempting To Elude Prohibited: Any driver or operator of a
motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a law
enforcement official directing such driver or operator to bring his vehicle to
a stop, wilfully fails or refuses to obey such direction, increases his speed,
extinguishes his lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the official,
is guilty of a violation of this code. The signal given by the law enforcement
official may be by hand, voice, siren, or red or blue light; provided, the
official giving such signal shall be in police uniform, and, if driving a
vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official vehicle of
the law enforcement agency. (1977 Code §
10-10-3; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Suspension Of Driver's License: Upon receiving notice of such
conviction, the secretary of state may forthwith suspend the driver's license
of the person so convicted for a period of not more than six (6) months. (1977
Code §
10-10-3)
7-3-4: FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES:
   A.   Following Or Parking Near Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle
other than one on official business shall not follow any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or
drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1977 Code § 10-10-9)
   B.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a fire department when laid down on any street, private road or
driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the
fire department official in command. (1977 Code § 10-10-10)
7-3-5: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC AND PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Village Jurisdiction: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street or other
public way under the jurisdiction of the Village, except as may be specifically
authorized by ordinance or by the Superintendent of Roads.
   B.   State Jurisdiction: No obstruction or encroachment upon any street or
highway under the jurisdiction of the state shall be permitted except as
specifically authorized by the state and the Village Board of Trustees. The
Board of Trustees will cooperate in a reasonable manner with the state in
disposing of any existing encroachments within the Village. (1977 Code § 10-10-
12)
   C.   Violations: Any person who shall wilfully and unnecessarily hinder,
obstruct or delay, or who shall wilfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay,
hinder or obstruct any other person in lawfully driving or traveling along or
upon any street or who shall offer for barter or sale merchandise on said
street so as to interfere with the effective movement of traffic shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1977 Code § 10-10-7)
7-3-6: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Preferential Right Of Way: Preferential right of way at an intersection
may be indicated by stop or yield signs. (1977 Code § 10-3-9)
   B.   Stop Intersections: Except when directed to proceed by a law
enforcement officer or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle
approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another roadway or which is approaching so closely on the
roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time when the driver is
moving across or within the intersection, but said driver having so yielded may
proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs. (1977 Code § 10-3-9; amd. 2004
Code)
   C.   Yield Right Of Way Intersections:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection. (1977 Code § 10-3-9)
      2.   If a driver is involved in a collision or interferes with the
movement of other vehicles at an intersection which is controlled by a yield
right of way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield the right of way. (1977 Code § 10-3-
9; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-7: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Speed Limits Established:
      1.   Findings: The Village President and Board of Trustees have
determined that the basic statutory vehicular speed limits established by 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-601 are greater than that considered reasonable
and proper on all interior roads, streets and highways within the Village (with
the exception of Old Barrington Road and Timberlake Road) over which the
Village has maintenance responsibility and which are under the jurisdiction of
the Village and not under the jurisdiction of the Illinois department of
transportation or of Lake County.
      2.   Speed Limits Established:
         a.   Streets Generally: The Village President and Board of Trustees
have caused to be made an engineering and traffic investigation upon the
aforesaid roads, streets and highways, and by virtue of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-604 and upon review of the supported data and findings of the
engineering and traffic investigation, has determined and hereby declares that
the reasonable, safe and proper absolute speed limit upon all interior roads,
streets, and highways within the Village (with the exception of Old Barrington
Road and Timberlake Road) over which the Village has maintenance and which are
under the jurisdiction of the Village and not under the jurisdiction of the
Illinois department of transportation or of Lake County shall be and is hereby
established at twenty five (25) miles per hour.
         b.   Timberlake Road: Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
604 and upon review of the supporting data and findings of the engineering and
traffic investigation, the maximum speed limits on those portions of Timberlake
Road lying within the Village limits over which the Village has maintenance and
which is under the jurisdiction of the Village and not under the jurisdiction
of the Illinois department of transportation or the Lake County department of
transportation shall be and hereby is established at thirty (30) miles per
hour.
         c.   Old Barrington Road: Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-604 and upon review of the supporting data and findings of the engineering
and traffic investigation, the maximum speed limits on those portions of Old
Barrington Road lying within the Village limits over which the Village has
maintenance responsibility and which are under the jurisdiction of the Village
and not under the jurisdiction of the Illinois department of transportation or
of Lake County shall be thirty five (35) miles per hour. (1977 Code §
10-6-1; amd. 2004 Code)
         d.   School Zones: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in
excess of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while
traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going
to and from school during school days when school children are present. School
zones shall be designated by resolution of the Village President and Board of
Trustees. (1977 Code §
10-6-2)
      3.   Signs Posted: The Superintendent of Roads shall cause signs to be
erected, giving notice of the aforesaid maximum speed limits, in conformance
with the standards and specifications contained in the Illinois manual of
uniform traffic control devices for streets and highways. (1977 Code §
10-6-1)
   B.   Minimum Speed:
      1.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance
with law.
      2.   Whenever the Village determines, upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation concerning a highway or street under its
jurisdiction, that slow vehicle speeds along any part or zone of such highway
or street consistently impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
the Village may determine and declare by proper regulation or ordinance a
minimum speed limit below which no person shall drive except when necessary for
safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with the law. A limit so
determined and declared becomes effective when appropriate signs giving notice
of the limit are erected along such part or zone of the highway or street.
(1977 Code §
10-6-3)
7-3-8: FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Processions: No operator of a vehicle shall drive
between the vehicles of persons comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession except when so directed by a police officer. This provision shall
not apply to "authorized emergency vehicles" as defined per section
7-1-1 of this title.
   B.   Funeral Processions:
      1.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral procession shall
drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall
follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
      2.   Vehicles To Be Identified: All motor vehicles participating in a
funeral procession, when proceeding to any place of burial, shall display
illuminated headlamps thereon. (1977 Code § 10-10-8)
      3.   Right Of Way: All motor vehicles so designated shall have the right
of way over all other vehicles, except authorized emergency vehicles, at any
street or highway intersections within the Village and may proceed through stop
streets or signalized intersections with proper caution and safety. (1977 Code
§ 10-10-8; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-9: CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES:
Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle, coaster,
sled, roller skates, or any toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself to
any moving vehicle upon any street or roadway. (1977 Code §
10-10-5)
7-3-10: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:
No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor in or
upon or about any motor vehicle except in the original package with the seal
unbroken. (1977 Code §
10-10-2)
7-3-11: UNLAWFUL USE OF OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or damage any public highway or
street or any bridge, culvert, sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or
constructed in connection with any public highway or street for the protection
thereof or for protection or regulation of traffic thereon by any unusual,
improper or unreasonable use thereof, or by carelessly driving or using any
vehicle thereon, or by mutilating, defacing or destruction thereof. (1977 Code
§ 10-10-11; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-12: DISPLAY OF STATE REGISTRATION PLATES:
State registration plates issued for a motor vehicle shall be attached thereto,
as provided by statute. Every such registration plate shall at all times be:
   A.   Securely fastened in a horizontal position to the vehicle for which it
is issued so as to prevent the plate from swinging.
   B.   Fastened in a place and position to be clearly visible.
   C.   Maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition to be clearly
legible. (1977 Code §
10-10-4)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Specifications For Traffic Control Devices; Official Devices
7-4-2: Installation And Maintenance Of Traffic Control Devices
7-4-3: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-4-4: Marking And Use Of Traffic Lanes
7-4-5: Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
7-4-6: Unauthorized Signs, Signals, Markings And Advertisements
7-4-7: Damage To, Interference With Devices
7-4-8: Effect Of Traffic Control Devices On Enforcement
7-4-1: SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; OFFICIAL DEVICES:
   A.   State Specifications To Apply: All traffic control signs, signals and
devices shall conform to the "Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices and
Specifications" approved by the state department of transportation. (1977 Code
§
10-8-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Uniformity: All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location
throughout the Village.
   C.   Official Traffic Control Devices: All traffic control devices so
erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this title
shall be official traffic control devices. (1977 Code §
10-8-2)
7-4-2: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The Superintendent of Roads shall place and maintain traffic control signs,
signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic regulations of the
Village to make effective the provisions of said regulations and, with the
concurrence of the Village Board of Trustees, may place and maintain such
additional traffic control devices as he may deem necessary and as may be
authorized by the Village Board of Trustees to regulate traffic under the
traffic regulations of the Village, under state law, or to guide or warn
traffic. (1977 Code §
10-8-1)
7-4-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Obedience Required: Every person shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic control device thereto placed in accordance with this chapter,
unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement official, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this title.
(1977 Code §
10-8-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Avoiding Traffic Control Devices Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person to leave the roadway and travel across private property to avoid an
official traffic control device. (1977 Code §
10-8-3)
7-4-4: MARKING AND USE OF TRAFFIC LANES:
The Superintendent of Roads is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the
roadway whenever, in his opinion, a regular alignment of traffic is necessary,
and said markings shall conform to the manual for uniform traffic control
devices. Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others
consistent herewith, shall apply: (1977 Code § 10-8-8; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides for
two way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such location is so designated by official traffic control
devices.
   C.   Official traffic control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   D.   Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadways, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device. (1977 Code § 10-8-8)
7-4-5: DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The Superintendent of Roads is hereby authorized, in conformance with the
manual for uniform traffic control devices: (1977 Code §
10-8-6; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   Crosswalks: To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or
lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in
his opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and
at such other places as he may deem necessary.
   B.   Safety Zones: To establish safety zones upon resolution of the Village
board of trustees of such kind and character and at such places as they may
deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1977 Code §
10-8-6)
7-4-6: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS AND ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Unauthorized Signs, Signals And Markings: No person shall place,
maintain or display upon or in view of any street any unauthorized sign,
signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or
resembles an official traffic control device or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain, or display upon or
in view of any street any other sign which hides from view or interferes with
the movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic control device.
   B.   Advertising On Traffic Signs Prohibited: No person may place or
maintain nor shall the Village permit upon any street any traffic sign or
signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is a
public nuisance, and the Superintendent of Roads is empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be removed without notice. (1977 Code §
10-8-4)
7-4-7: DAMAGE TO, INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, injure,
knock down, or remove any official traffic control device. (1977 Code §
10-8-5)
7-4-8: EFFECT OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES ON ENFORCEMENT:
No provision of this chapter for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever
a particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (1977 Code §
10-8-3)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
7-5-1: Application Of Provisions
7-5-2: Authority Of Superintendent Of Roads
7-5-3: Parking Prohibited In Certain Places
7-5-4: Overnight Parking Prohibited
7-5-5: Manner Of Parking
7-5-6: Duty Of Driver Upon Parking
7-5-7: Moving, Starting Parked Vehicle
7-5-8: Use Of Lights On Parked Vehicles
7-5-9: Obedience To Signs
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-4 of this code for citation provisions.
7-5-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of any regulation prohibiting the stopping, standing or parking
of vehicles shall apply at all times or at those times therein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except where it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a law
enforcement officer or official traffic control device. (1977 Code §
10-7-1; amd. 2004 Code)
7-5-2: AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT OF ROADS:
   A.   The Superintendent of Roads is authorized, subject to the approval of
the board of trustees by resolution, to determine and designate those streets
or parts of streets upon which parking shall be prohibited or upon which
parking shall be prohibited on one side only, and he shall cause to be erected
appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
   B.   The Superintendent of Roads is hereby authorized, subject to the
approval of the board of trustees by resolution, to determine and designate
streets or parts of streets upon which stopping, standing or parking shall be
prohibited within certain hours or permitted for a limited time, and he shall
cause to be erected and maintained appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
(1977 Code § 10-7-6; amd. 2004 Code)
7-5-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES:
No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a law enforcement officer
or traffic control device, in any of the following places: (1977 Code §
10-7-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   B.   Within an intersection.
   C.   Within twenty feet (20') of an intersection.
   D.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   E.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
parking would obstruct traffic.
   F.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge of a street 1 .
   G.   Upon any street within twenty feet (20') of any mailbox designed and
arranged to permit deposit of mail from vehicles.
   H.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (1977 Code §
10-7-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-5-5B2 of this chapter.
7-5-4: OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED:
In addition to any other restrictions now or hereafter imposed, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on any street, alley or public right of way within
the Village between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., except upon approval of the Superintendent of Roads. Whenever any vehicle
shall have been parked in violation of this section, the person in whose name
such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation
and subject to the penalty therefor; provided, however, no person who is the
lessor of a vehicle pursuant to a written lease agreement shall be liable for
the violation of any ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking involving
such vehicle during the period of the lease unless such lessor fails to provide
the name, address, and driver's license number of the lessee within forty five
(45) days of receipt by such lessor of a request by the Village for such
information made within ninety (90) days after the violation occurred. (1977
Code § 10-7-9; amd. 2004 Code)
7-5-5: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel And Angle Parking: No person shall stand or park a vehicle in
a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the
direction of lawful traffic movement and with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the curb or edge of the roadway, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter; provided, that where a street has been
marked for angle parking by direction of the President and Board of Trustees,
cars shall be parked at the angle indicated by such marks and within the
boundaries designated by such marks.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall park any vehicle on a street in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than fifteen feet (15') of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except on a one
way street.
      2.   Double parking is prohibited 1 . (1977 Code §
10-7-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-5-3F of this chapter.
7-5-6: DUTY OF DRIVER UPON PARKING:
   A.   Leaving Vehicles Unattended, Procedures: No person driving or in charge
of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without first stopping
the engine and removing the ignition key and, when standing on any perceptible
grade, without effectively setting the brake and turning the front wheels away
from the curb when parking up grade and toward the curb when parking down
grade.
   B.   Opening Doors Into Traffic: No person shall open the door of a vehicle
on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe
to do so, and can be done without interfering with the movement of other
traffic, nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of a vehicle
available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load
or unload passengers. (1977 Code § 10-7-8)
7-5-7: MOVING, STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
   A.   Safe Conditions Required: No person shall start to move a vehicle which
is stopped, standing, or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety. (1977 Code § 10-7-8)
   B.   Authority To Move And Start: No person other than a law enforcement
official, as provided in section
7-10A-1 of this title, shall move a vehicle into any prohibited area or away
from the road edge such distance as is unlawful, or start or cause to be
started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change, or move the levers,
brake, starting device, gears, or other mechanism of a parked motor vehicle to
a position other than that in which it was left by the owner or driver thereof,
or attempt to do so. (1977 Code § 10-7-6; amd. 2004 Code)
7-5-8: USE OF LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Lighted Streets: Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime
upon any lighted street within a business or residence district, no lights need
to be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   B.   Streets With No Lighting: During the period from sunset to sunrise,
every motorcycle or motor vehicle which is standing on any street, other than
as provided in subsection A of this section, shall display a parking light on
the front and at the rear of same.
   C.   Lights To Be Dimmed: Any lighted driving lamps upon a parked vehicle
shall be depressed or dimmed. (1977 Code §
10-7-3)
7-5-9: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS:
Where signs have been erected upon any street as authorized herein indicating
that parking is prohibited during designated hours or prohibited for a longer
time than is designated, no person shall park any vehicle on said street in
violation of any such signs. (1977 Code § 10-7-7)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES 1
SECTION:
7-6-1: Authority To Regulate Traffic On Certain Streets
7-6-2: Through Streets
7-6-3: Signs Posted
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 7-8-1B of this title for vehicle weight limits on certain
  streets.
7-6-1: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE TRAFFIC ON CERTAIN STREETS:
   A.   The Village Board of Trustees shall designate, by resolution or motion,
those streets or parts of streets insofar as they exist within the limits of
the Village which shall be through streets, one-way streets, or arterial
streets.
   B.   The Village Board of Trustees shall designate, by resolution or motion,
those locations and intersections which shall be stop locations, yield right of
way locations and any other designation that may be appropriate. (1977 Code §
10-3-1)
   C.   The Village Board of Trustees shall designate, by resolution or motion,
those locations at which parking shall be regulated.
   D.   The resolutions designating the various traffic schedules referenced in
this section are on file in the office of the Village Clerk for public use and
inspection. (2004 Code)
7-6-2: THROUGH STREETS:
The following described roads or streets are hereby designated through streets:
Miller Road
State Highway Route 22
State Highway Route 59 (1977 Code §
10-3-2)
7-6-3: SIGNS POSTED:
   A.   Through Streets: Whenever any street or road is designated a through
street, as herein provided, it shall be the duty of the superintendent of roads
to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street intersecting such
through street or intersecting that part thereof described and designated as
such unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled by traffic control
signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of a through street and a
heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the
approaches of either or both of said streets as may be determined by the Board
of Trustees.
   B.   Stop Locations: Stop signs shall be erected at all locations designated
stop locations.
   C.   Yield Right Of Way Signs: Appropriate signs will be erected at all
yield right of way intersections. (1977 Code § 10-3-8)
   D.   One Way Streets: Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited. (1977 Code §
10-3-3)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
7-7-2: Duty To Exercise Due Care
7-7-3: Right Of Way
7-7-4: Pedestrians Crossing Roadways
7-7-5: Pedestrians Walking On Roadways
7-7-6: Soliciting Rides Or Business
7-7-7: Persons With Disabilities
7-7-1: APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control and pedestrian control signals
as heretofore declared in this title, but at all other places, pedestrians
shall be granted those rights and shall be subject to the restrictions stated
in this title. (1977 Code §
10-5-1)
7-7-2: DUTY TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
   A.   Duty Of Driver: Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, every
driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway or any person operating a bicycle or other device
propelled by human power and shall give warning by sounding the horn when
necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any
obviously confused or incapacitated or intoxicated person upon a roadway. (1977
Code §
10-5-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Duty Of Pedestrian: Nothing in this chapter shall relieve a pedestrian
from the duty of exercising due care. (1977 Code §
10-5-2)
7-7-3: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Pedestrians' Right Of Way: When traffic control signals are not in
place or not in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of
way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield to a pedestrian crossing
the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the
roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   B.   Vehicles Stopped At Crosswalks And Intersections: Whenever any vehicle
is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any
other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass such
stopped vehicle. (1977 Code §
10-5-3)
   C.   Stop Signs; Flashing Red Signals: Whenever stop signs or flashing red
signals are in place at an intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk
between intersections, pedestrians shall have the right of way over drivers of
vehicles. (1977 Code §
10-5-3; amd. 2004 Code)
7-7-4: PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAYS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield. (1977 Code §
10-5-2)
7-7-5: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a roadway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   C.   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a roadway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway and, if on a two way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this title, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (2004
Code)
7-7-6: SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
   A.   Soliciting Rides Prohibited: No person shall stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   B.   Soliciting Business On A Roadway: No person shall stand on a roadway
for the purpose of soliciting employment or business from the occupant of any
vehicle.
   C.   Soliciting Contributions On A Roadway: No person shall stand on a
roadway for the purpose of soliciting contributions from the occupant of any
vehicle, except when expressly permitted by Village ordinance. Solicitations on
roadways within the Village shall be allowed only at intersections where all
traffic is required to come to a full stop. The soliciting entity shall:
      1.   Be registered with the attorney general as a charitable organization
as provided by "an act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for
charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor", approved July 26, 1963, as amended 1 ;
      2.   Have complied with all applicable provisions of title 3, chapter 2
of this code relative to peddlers and solicitors;
      3.   Be engaged in a statewide fundraising activity;
      4.   Be liable for any injuries to any person or property during such
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
agents or members of the soliciting entity and shall file with the Village a
public liability policy or certificate of insurance in the amount of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) conditioned to indemnify the Village and hold
it harmless against any claim arising out of and resulting from such
solicitations; and
      5.   Any person engaged in the act of solicitation for a soliciting
entity under this section shall be sixteen (16) years of age or more and shall
be wearing a high visibility vest.
   D.   Soliciting To Hold Parking Space: No person shall stand on or in the
proximity of a roadway for the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding
of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a street or roadway. (1977
Code §
10-5-4; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.
7-7-7: PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Weight Limits Established
7-8-2: Enforcement
7-8-3: Violation
7-8-4: Penalties
7-8-1: WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Limits Established: All vehicles operated on Village roads constructed
of bituminous pavement over a gravel base shall be limited to a maximum weight
of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds for any one axle; except, that such maximum
weight shall be reduced to eight thousand (8,000) pounds for any one axle upon
direction of the Village President, Superintendent of Roads, Deputy
Superintendent of Roads, or any law enforcement official, if any such official
finds that damage to the Village streets and roads will be probable from loads
in excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds on any one axle, due to weather or
road conditions.
   B.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of subsection A of this
section shall not be applicable to trucks specifically equipped with a self-
compactor, or an industrial roll off hoist and roll off container used
exclusively for garbage or refuse operations, or to fire apparatus, vehicles
used in snow and ice removal, or school buses.
   C.   Signs Posted: Regulatory signs providing notice of the weight
limitations in this section shall be posted at appropriate locations. (1977
Code §
10-9-1; amd. 2004 Code)
7-8-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Officers: Any law enforcement official, the Building and
Zoning Officer, or the Superintendent of Roads, or their designated
representatives, having reason to believe that the weight of a vehicle and load
is unlawful, may require the driver of any vehicle other than a passenger
automobile to submit to having said vehicle weighed at the nearest public
scales or at any suitable portable or stationary scales, whether private or
public.
   B.   Removal Of Overweight Vehicles: Whenever a law enforcement officer, or
other official, upon weighing a vehicle and load as provided herein, determines
that the weight exceeds that permitted herein, the driver of such vehicle shall
remove said vehicle from all "roadways", which are defined as per section
7-1-1 of this title, by the shortest available route. (1977 Code §
10-9-3; amd. 2004 Code)
7-8-3: VIOLATION:
Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or whenever any driver of a vehicle who fails or refuses to stop and
submit to a weighing, or fails or refuses when directed by an officer to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the owner or driver of such vehicle, or
both such owner and driver, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1977 Code
§
10-9-4)
7-8-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of
section
7-8-1 of this title, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty
of such violation, and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be
prosecuted for such violation. Any person convicted of any violation of section
7-8-1 of this chapter, including, but not limited to, a maximum axle or gross
limit specified on a regulatory sign, shall be fined according to the following
schedule:
Overweight Pounds Fine
Overweight Pounds         Fine
Up to and including 2,000 $50.00 unless the overweight can be shifted or
                          removed to conform to all legal weights
2,001 through 2,500       $135.00
2,501 through 3,000       $165.00
3,001 through 3,500       $260.00
3,501 through 4,000       $350.00
4,001 through 4,500       $425.00
4,501 through 5,000       $475.00
                          The fine shall be computed at the rate of $75.00 for
5,001 or more             each increment of 500 pounds overweight or fraction
                          thereof
 
(1977 Code §
10-9-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   In addition, any person, firm or corporation convicted of four (4) or
more violations of section
7-8-1 of this chapter within any twelve (12) month period shall be fined an
additional amount of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for the
fourth and each subsequent conviction within a twelve (12) month period.
Provided, however, that with regard to a firm or corporation, a fourth or
subsequent conviction shall mean a fourth or subsequent conviction attributable
to any one employee driver. (1977 Code §
10-9-2)
CHAPTER 9
INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definition
7-9-2: Nuisance Declared; Prohibitions; Exemptions
7-9-3: Abatement Procedures
7-9-4: Enforcement
7-9-5: Penalty
7-9-1: DEFINITION:
When used in this chapter, the term "inoperable motor vehicle" shall mean any
motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least ten (10) consecutive days,
the engine, any wheels or any tire is flat, or other parts have been removed,
or any wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated
that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
"Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has been
rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations. (Ord. 1306, 8-23-2017)
7-9-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; PROHIBITIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
The location or presence of any inoperable motor vehicle on any lot, tract,
parcel of land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or
unimproved, within the Village shall be deemed a public nuisance, and it shall
be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain such public nuisance by
wrecking, dismantling, rendering inoperable, abandoning or discarding his
vehicle on the property of another or public property or to suffer, permit or
allow the same to be placed, located, or maintained or to exist upon his own
real property or any premises leased or occupied by him; provided, that this
chapter shall not apply to: (1977 Code § 10-2-8; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
private or public property;
   B.   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed vehicle
dealer or a vehicle on the premises of a licensed business engaged in wrecking
or junking of vehicles, if such businesses are otherwise permitted by the
ordinances of the Village; or
   C.   Historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age. (1977 Code § 10-
2-8)
7-9-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Abate:
      1.   Private Property: Whenever such public nuisance exists in the
Village in violation hereof, the Village and/or its agents shall give not less
than seven (7) days' notice to the owner of the real property, the occupant or
lessee, if any, of the premises whereon such public nuisance exists to abate or
remove the same, stating the nature of the public nuisance on private property
and that it must be removed and abated within seven (7) days and further that a
request for a hearing must be made before expiration of said seven (7) day
period by the aggrieved person, such notice to be mailed, by certified or
registered mail and by regular mail, to the owner, the occupant or the lessee
of the private premises whereupon such public nuisance exists. If the notice is
returned undelivered by the United States Post Office, official action to abate
said nuisance shall be continued to a date not less than seven (7) days from
the date of such return.
      2.   Public Property: Whenever such public nuisance exists in the Village
in violation hereof, the Village and/or its agents shall give not less than
seven (7) days' notice, stating the nature of the public nuisance on the public
property or on a public right- of-way and that it must be removed and abated
within seven (7) days and further that a request for a hearing must be made
before expiration of said seven (7) day period, such notice to be mailed, by
certified or registered mail to the owner, the occupant or the lessee of the
public premises or to the owner, the occupant or the lessee of the premises
adjacent to the public right-of-way whereupon such public nuisance exists. If
the notice is returned undelivered by the United States Post Office, official
action to abate the nuisance shall be continued to a date not less than seven
(7) days from the date of said return.
   B.   Hearing: If a public hearing is requested within seven (7) days after
service of notice to abate the public nuisance to the owner, the occupant or
the lessee of the public or private premises upon which the inoperable vehicle
is located, said public hearing will be held before a person designated by the
Village Board of Trustees. Any resolution or order requiring the removal of a
vehicle or part thereof shall include a description of the vehicle, the correct
identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available.
   C.   Removal With Permission Of Owner Or Occupant: If, within seven (7) days
after receipt of notice from the Village and/or its agents to abate the
nuisance as herein provided, the owner, the occupant or lessee of the premises
shall give written permission to the Village for removal of the inoperable
motor vehicle from the premises, the removal shall be at the expense of said
owner. The giving of permission shall be considered compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1977 Code §
   D.   Failure To Abate; Disposal Of Vehicles: If the public nuisance is not
abated by the owner, occupant or lessee after notice is given in accordance
with this chapter, official action shall be taken by the Village to abate the
nuisance. Inoperable vehicles or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal to
a scrapyard or demolishers for processing as scrap or salvage.
   E.   Summary Abatement: Nothing in this chapter shall affect statutes or
ordinances that permit immediate removal of a vehicle left on public property
which constitutes an obstruction to traffic 1 . (1977 Code § 10-2-8)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 10, article A of this title.
7-9-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Law enforcement officials may enter upon private property for the purposes
specified in this chapter, to examine vehicles or parts thereof, obtain
information as to the identity of vehicles and to remove or cause the removal
of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this
chapter, but shall comply with the fourth amendment of the United States
constitution. (1977 Code § 10-2-8; amd. 2004 Code)
7-9-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a vehicle remains inoperable
after notice has been given shall constitute a separate offense. (1977 Code §
10-2-8; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 10
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES 1
SECTION:
7-10-1: Enforcement Officials
7-10-2: Violation A Misdemeanor
7-10-3: Records Required
7-10-4: Illegally Parked Vehicles
7-10-5: Cancellation Of Violation Notice Prohibited
7-10-6: False Reports
7-10-7: Frequent Violators
7-10-8: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-4-4F of this code for presumption of traffic violation.
7-10-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
It shall be the duty of the law enforcement agency to enforce the street
traffic regulations of the Village and all of the state vehicle laws applicable
to street traffic in the Village, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the Village in
the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties especially imposed
upon the law enforcement agency by this title or other ordinances or
requirements and regulations of this code. (1977 Code §
10-11-1; amd. 2004 Code)
7-10-2: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to
particular offenses, it is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required in this title. (1977 Code §
10-10-1)
7-10-3: RECORDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Record Of Violations: The law enforcement agency shall keep a record of
all violations of the traffic ordinances of the Village or the regulations of
this code or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has been charged,
together with a record of the final disposition of all such alleged offenses.
   B.   Traffic Ticket Books:
      1.   Traffic violation notice forms for notifying violators to appear and
answer to charges of violating traffic laws and ordinances and the
corresponding complaint forms therefor shall be the uniform traffic ticket and
complaint in serially numbered sets consisting of three (3) copies of the
notice and one copy of the corresponding complaint and shall be provided in
books and in the form prescribed and approved.
      2.   The law enforcement agency shall be responsible for the issuance of
such books and shall maintain or cause to be maintained a record of every such
book.
   C.   Record Of Complaints: Every law enforcement official, upon issuing a
traffic violation notice to an alleged violator of any provision of the motor
vehicle laws of the state or of any traffic ordinance or regulation of this
code, shall deposit the corresponding traffic violation complaint of said
notice with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the same to be
filed in circuit court.
   D.   Records Of Disposition Of Charges: The law enforcement agency shall
maintain or cause to be maintained in connection with every traffic violation
notice issued by a member of the law enforcement agency a record of the
disposition of the charge.
   E.   Other Records: The law enforcement agency shall maintain a suitable
record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions and complaints
reported for each driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under the name of
the driver concerned.
   F.   Disposal Of Records Prohibited: It shall be unlawful and official
misconduct for any law enforcement official or other officer or public employee
to dispose of a traffic violation notice or copies thereof, a traffic violation
complaint, or the record of the issuance of a traffic violation notice in a
manner other than as required in this title. (1977 Code §
10-11-2; amd. 2004 Code)
7-10-4: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Notice On Illegally Parked Vehicle:
      1.   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of any
section of this code prohibiting or restricting parking and there is no person
in attendance upon such parked vehicle to be arrested or served immediately
with a traffic violation notice to appear in court to answer the charge of such
violation, any law enforcement officer observing such violation may attach to
the vehicle used in such violation a traffic violation notice so that the
person in whose name such vehicle is registered may appear in court on a
certain day and at a designated courtroom to be named in such notice and answer
to the charge of such violation.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the
vehicle to which said notice is attached, to remove the same from said vehicle.
(1977 Code §
10-11-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Presumption Of Traffic Violation 2 : Whenever any vehicle shall have
been parked in violation of any of the provisions of any ordinance or
requirement of this code prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject to the penalty therefor; provided, however, no person who
is the lessor of a vehicle pursuant to a written lease agreement shall be
liable for the violation of any ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking
involving such vehicle during the period of the lease unless such lessor fails
to provide the name, address, and driver's license within forty five (45) days
of receipt by such lessor of a request by the Village for such information made
within ninety (90) days after the violation occurred. (1977 Code §
10-11-5; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-4-4 of this code for citation provisions.
2 1. See also subsection 1-4-4F of this code.
7-10-5: CANCELLATION OF VIOLATION NOTICE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of
any traffic violation notice or complaint in any manner other than as provided
in this title. (1977 Code §
10-11-3)
7-10-6: FALSE REPORTS:
Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this title with knowledge or reason to believe that such information is false
shall be guilty of a violation of this code. (1977 Code §
10-11-6)
7-10-7: FREQUENT VIOLATORS:
The law enforcement agency shall study the cases of all drivers charged with
frequent or serious violations of the traffic laws or involved in frequent
traffic accidents or any serious accident, and shall attempt to discover the
reason therefor, and shall take whatever steps are lawful and reasonable to
prevent same or to have the license of such person suspended or revoked by
state authorities, pursuant to law. (1977 Code §
10-11-7; amd. 2004 Code)
7-10-8: PENALTY 1 :
Every person convicted of a violation of sections
7-5-3,
7-5-4,
7-5-6, 7-5-7A and
7-5-9 of this title and for violating ordinances prohibited parking on specific
streets (not specifically set out in this code) shall pay a penalty of twenty
five dollars ($25.00); provided, however, that in the event that the owner or
operator of the vehicle makes payment to the Village within seven (7) calendar
days after the date of receipt of the arrest ticket, the penalty shall be ten
dollars ($10.00) for such violation. Every person convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this title for which no penalty is specifically
provided shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 899, 7-22-2002)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 7-1-4 of this title; see section 1-4-4 of this code for
  citation provisions.
CHAPTER 10
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
ARTICLE A. IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-10A-1: Authority To Impound
7-10A-2: Supervision Of Impoundment
7-10A-3: Notice Of Impoundment
7-10A-4: Storage Of Impounded Vehicle; Redemption
7-10A-5: Disposition Of Unclaimed Vehicles
7-10A-6: Records Kept
7-10A-1: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
Members of the law enforcement agency are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle
from any public way to the nearest vehicle pound or authorized garage as
determined and designated by the law enforcement agency under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated: (1977 Code §
10-2-1; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   When a vehicle on any public way is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic, and the person in charge of the vehicle is, by reason
of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide
for its custody or removal.
   B.   When any vehicle is left unattended on any public way and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
   C.   When any vehicle illegally occupies a parking space for an unreasonable
time. (1977 Code §
10-2-1)
7-10A-2: SUPERVISION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
It shall be the duty of the law enforcement agency to cause every vehicle
removed from any public way to be so removed and conveyed by or under the
direction of a member of the law enforcement agency to an authorized garage.
(1977 Code § 10-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
7-10A-3: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Notice To Owner: Whenever the law enforcement agency has impounded any
vehicle as aforesaid, said agency shall ascertain from the registration records
of the state and of the Village the name and address of the owner thereof and
shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to such owner of
the fact of such removal and impounding and the reason therefor and of the
place to which such vehicle has been removed. (1977 Code § 10-2-5; amd. 2004
Code)
   B.   Owner Unknown; Notice To State: Whenever the law enforcement agency has
impounded any vehicle as aforesaid and does not know and is not able to
ascertain the name of the owner, or for any reason is unable to give notice to
the owner as hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is not
returned to the owner within a period of seven (7) days, then and in that
event, the law enforcement agency shall immediately send or cause to be sent a
written report of such removal and impounding by mail to the secretary of
state. Such notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the
date, time, and place from which removed, the reasons for such removal, and the
address of the vehicle pound or authorized garage where the vehicle is stored.
(1977 Code § 10-2-6; amd. 2004 Code)
7-10A-4: STORAGE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE; REDEMPTION:
   A.   Storage: It shall be the duty of the law enforcement agency to safely
keep any vehicle so impounded until such vehicle shall have been repossessed by
the owner or person legally entitled to possession thereof or otherwise
disposed of, as hereinafter provided. (1977 Code § 10-2-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Redemption Of Impounded Vehicle: Before the owner or person entitled to
possession of any legally impounded vehicle shall be permitted to remove the
same from the custody of the law enforcement agency, he shall furnish evidence
of his identity and ownership of the vehicle and right of possession thereto,
shall sign a receipt for the vehicle, and shall pay a fee to cover the cost of
towing or removal to an authorized garage, and in addition thereto, the cost of
storage at a rate for each day or fraction of a day said vehicle is stored
therein. (1977 Code § 10-2-3; amd. 2004 Code)
7-10A-5: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   A.   Public Sale:
      1.   Whenever any abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle seven (7)
years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the owner or other person legally
entitled to possession thereof for a period of thirty (30) days from the day
such vehicle was impounded, and after notice shall have been given, it shall be
the duty of the law enforcement agency to sell such vehicle at public auction
to the highest bidder for cash, the time and place of such sale to be published
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village, not less
than ten (10) nor more than fifteen (15) days from the expiration of said
thirty (30) days, and the agency shall also cause a notice of such sale to be
mailed to the secretary of state not less than ten (10) nor more than fifteen
(15) days from the expiration of said thirty (30) days. Said notice shall
contain a full description of the vehicle to be sold and the time and place of
sale; provided, that any such vehicle not sold at the first sale may be offered
for sale and sold at any subsequent sale without further notice or publication.
      2.   The proceeds of such sale, after paying all liens and deducting all
reasonable charges and expenses incurred in receiving, towing, keeping,
preparing and giving notices, advertising for sale or selling or otherwise
disposing of such vehicle, shall be paid to the Village Treasurer.
   B.   Restoration By Village: If, in the opinion of the law enforcement
official processing the vehicle, it has a value of two hundred dollars
($200.00) or more and can be restored to a safe operating condition, the
Village may authorize its purchase as salvage, and the Village shall apply to
the secretary of state for a salvage certificate as provided in the Illinois
vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 through 5/3-118.1. A
vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may, however, be sold to a person
desiring to restore it.
   C.   Sales To Public Employees Prohibited: No member of the law enforcement
agency, nor any other employee of the Village or any other village, city,
county or state, directly or indirectly, shall purchase or participate in the
bidding for or purchase of any vehicle offered for sale as aforesaid. (1977
Code § 10-2-7; amd. 2004 Code)
7-10A-6: RECORDS KEPT:
The law enforcement agency shall cause to be kept an accurate record of the
description of such vehicle, including the name of the officer from whom such
vehicle was received, the officer employed to tow or deliver the same to said
authorized garage, the date and time when received, the place where found,
seized or taken possession of, the make and color of car, style or body, kind
of power, motor number, serial number, number of cylinders, year built, state
license number, if any, wheel tax license number, if any, equipment and general
description of condition, the name and address of the person redeeming said
vehicle, the date of redemption, and the manner and date of disposal of said
vehicle in case the same shall not be redeemed, together with the towing and
storage charges. Said record shall be in the form prescribed by the law
enforcement agency. It shall also be the duty of the law enforcement agency to
keep reports of all such vehicles delivered to said agency, which reports shall
be kept in the office of the agency and available for inspection by any
interested party at all reasonable hours of the day. (1977 Code § 10-2-4; amd.
2004 Code)
CHAPTER 11
OPERATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES ON DESIGNATED VILLAGE STREETS
SECTIONS:
7-11-1: Definitions
7-11-2: Operation Of Non-Highway Vehicles
7-11-3: Annual Registration Of Non-Highway Vehicles
7-11-4: Compliance With Illinois Vehicle Code
7-11-5: Other Restrictions On The Use Of Non-Highway Vehicles
7-11-6: Offenses By Persons Owning Or Controlling Non-Highway Vehicles
7-11-7: Penalties
7-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
 
          Means a motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used on a public
NON-      highway, including:
HIGHWAY   1.   A vehicle as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-123.9.
VEHICLES: 2.   A recreational off-highway vehicle as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-
          168.8.
OPERATE:  Means to drive or otherwise control the movement of a non-highway
          vehicle by using its steering apparatus and accelerator mechanism.
OPERATOR: Means a person who operates a non-highway vehicle. It does not include
          a person who is merely riding on a non-highway vehicle as a passenger.
 
7-11-2: OPERATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   The use and operation of non-highway vehicles on the public streets of
the Village shall be permitted, subject to the provisions of this chapter. The
operation of any non-highway vehicle other than non-highway vehicles as defined
in this chapter is prohibited.
   B.   No person may operate a non-highway vehicle on any public street or
roadway where the posted speed limit is more than twenty-five (25) miles per
hour.
   C.   In addition to the foregoing, no person may operate a non-highway
vehicle on any portion of, including crossing upon the following streets:
      1.   Miller Road
      2.   IL Route 59
      3.   IL Route 22
   D.   No person operating a non-highway vehicle shall make a direct crossing
upon or across any other highway under the jurisdiction of the County of Lake
and State of Illinois.
7-11-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
No non-highway vehicle authorized under this chapter, shall be operated on any
street in the Village unless the owner(s) thereof shall have first registered
with the Village in accordance with the following requirements:
   A.   Registration of such vehicles shall be administered by the Village
Administrator or designee. An application for registration may be made on a
form prescribed by the Village. Said form shall include a statement under oath
with penalties of perjury that the vehicle proposed to be registered meets the
definition of non-highway vehicles as defined by the state statute or in this
chapter and shall be accompanied by an annual registration fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) and proof of liability insurance for said vehicle having at least the
same limits of coverage as required from time to time for motor vehicles under
the mandatory insurance law of the State of Illinois.
   B.   Vehicles registered under this chapter and section shall be issued a
sticker from the Village which shall be affixed to the rear of the vehicle and
shall be viewable to a police officer from outside of said vehicle.
   C.   The registration of said vehicle shall be effective for a period of one
year to start on April 1 of each year and shall be renewed annually by March 31
of each year thereafter in the same manner as the original registration,
including the required proof of liability insurance. Any registrations made
after the expiration of six (6) months from April 1 shall pay one-half of the
annual fee.
   D.   The registration of said vehicles shall not be transferable in the
event of a change of ownership. A new registration fee and application will be
required from the new owner(s). Operation of any non-highway vehicle by a new
owner while using the previous owner's registration sticker shall be a
violation of this Ordinance. No refund of the original registration fee is
allowed in the event of the change of ownership.
   E.   The registration of said vehicles shall be subject to the revocation by
the Village Administrator or designee in the event of a violation of the
requirements of 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1 or any of the provisions of this chapter.
A revocation of such registration shall be made in writing and shall set forth
the provision(s) of the state statute or this chapter that has been violated.
No refund of the registration fee is allowed in the event of the revocation of
said permit.
   F.   In the event the registration of a vehicle is revoked due to the
owner's failure to maintain the required liability insurance, the Village may
reinstate the registration if; (1) the Village determines that the owner's
failure to maintain insurance was not intentional, and (2) the owner provides
documentation demonstrating that the required insurance coverage has been
reinstated.
   G.   In the event the registration of a vehicle is revoked due to the
owner's failure to fully comply with section
7-11-4(B) of this ordinance, the Village may reinstate the registration if; (1)
the Village determines that the owner's failure was not intentional; (2) the
owner repairs or modifies the vehicle to bring it in compliance with the
requirements of section
7-11-4(B); and (3) the Village Administrator determines, upon reinspection of
the vehicle, that the vehicle's violation has been corrected.
7-11-4: COMPLIANCE WITH ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE:
   A.   The operation of non-highway vehicles within the Village shall be in
accordance with all provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100
et.seq.
   B.   All non-highway vehicles must have at a minimum, the equipment and
other items set forth in Section 11-1426.1(e) of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625
ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e)), including:
      1.   Brakes
      2.   Steering apparatus
      3.   Four (4) tires
      4.   A rearview mirror
      5.   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear
      6.   A slow moving emblem on the rear
      7.   A headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of not
less than five hundred feet (500')
      8.   At least two (2) redtail lamps that remain steady when the lights
are activated and visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet
(100')
      9.   At least one (1) red brake lamp that becomes steady when the brakes
are applied and is visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet
(100')
      10.   A horn.
7-11-5: OTHER RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a non-highway vehicle in
the Village under any of the following conditions:
      1.   At a rate of speed that is unreasonable or improper under the
circumstances;
      2.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner, so as to endanger the
safety of any person or property of any other person;
      3.   While under the influence of alcohol, drugs, intoxicating compounds
or any combination thereof, subject to the provisions of 625 ILCS 5/11-501
through 625 ILCS 5/11-502;
      4.   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise so as
to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      5.   On the private property of another without the permission of the
owner or lessee of the property. Further, the failure to post signs for no
trespass does not grant consent for non-highway vehicle use;
      6.   On public property areas not intended for vehicles, including, but
not limited to, school grounds, park property, playgrounds and public open
space and recreational areas.
      7.   While carrying more passengers than the vehicle was designed to
safely seat;
      8.   At any time of day other than during allowable hours of operation,
which are Sunday through Thursday six o’clock (6:00) a.m. to eleven o’clock
(11:00) p.m. and Friday and Saturday six o’clock (6:00) a.m. to midnight.
   B.   A person may not operate a non-highway vehicle upon any street in the
Village unless he or she is sixteen (16) years or older and has a valid
driver's license issued by the Illinois Secretary of State or by a foreign
jurisdiction.
   C.   A person may not operate a non-highway vehicle upon any street in the
Village without proof of applicable liability insurance coverage required under
the provisions of Illinois state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the State of
Illinois.
7-11-6: OFFENSES BY PERSONS OWNING OR CONTROLLING NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of a non-highway vehicle to permit,
authorize, or direct any other person to operate such vehicle on any of the
Village streets in any manner that violates sections
7-11-4 and/or
7-11-5 of this chapter.
7-11-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
one hundred dollars ($100.00). A second and all subsequent offenses within a
twelve (12) month period shall result in a fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for each such offense.
   B.   To the extent of any violation of this section constitutes a violation
of the Illinois Vehicle Code or a criminal statute of the State of Illinois,
the violator shall also be subject to prosecution under the applicable code or
statute.
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SCOPE OF REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Minimum Requirements
8-1-2: Agricultural Exemption
8-1-3: Registration Of Vacant Buildings
8-1-1: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The regulations in this title set forth requirements which are considered
reasonable and are held in every instance to be the minimum for the promotion
of public health, safety, and general welfare. (1977 Code §
4-1-3)
8-1-2: AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTION:
Exempt from the provisions of this title, as provided by state statutes, are
farm residences and other buildings and structures used for agricultural
purposes on farms. To be considered exempt, such residence, building, or
structure shall be located on a farm that is such in fact and not in name only
and be accessory to the cultivation of crop acreage or other agricultural
operations of such extent and character as generally prevail on farms. (1977
Code §
4-1-4)
8-1-3: REGISTRATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS:
Those buildings which fall within the definition of "vacant" buildings of
chapter 6 of this title are governed by said chapter 6. (Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Building Codes Adopted
8-2-2: Effective Date
8-2-3: Purpose
8-2-4: Scope
8-2-5: Codes Adopted
8-2-6: Amendments To The 2012 International Building Code
8-2-7: Amendments To International Residential Code
8-2-8: Amendments To International Mechanical Code
8-2-9: Amendments To International Fuel Gas Code
8-2-10: Amendments To International Fire Code
8-2-11: Amendments To International Property Maintenance Code
8-2-12: Amendments To National Electrical Code
8-2-13: Amendments To Illinois Energy Conservation Code
8-2-14: Amendments To Illinois Plumbing Code
8-2-15: Amendments To Illinois Accessibility Code
8-2-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
The codes cited in section
8-2-5 of this chapter, and individually cited in succeeding sections of this
chapter are adopted by reference. (Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-2: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be effective June 1, 2013. (Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for health, safety and public welfare
through structural strength and stability, means of egress, adequate light and
ventilation and protection to life and property from fire and hazards incident
to the design, construction, addition, alteration, repair, maintenance, removal
or demolition of buildings and structures, and also to establish requirements
providing a reasonable level of life safety and property protection from the
hazards of fire, explosion or dangerous conditions in new and existing
buildings, structures and premises. (Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-4: SCOPE:
The provisions of this title apply to the construction, addition, alteration,
repair, replacement, removal, demolition, location, use, occupancy and
maintenance of all buildings, structures and premises. (Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-5: CODES ADOPTED:
The model codes and state codes hereinafter set forth are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this village code, as amended.
   A.   2012 international building code (IBC) including appendix C, except as
provided in section
8-2-6 of this chapter.
   B.   2012 international residential code (IRC) including appendices A, B, G,
K, and O, except as provided in section
8-2-7 of this chapter.
   C.   2012 international mechanical code (IMC), except as provided in section
8-2-8 of this chapter.
   D.   2012 international fuel gas code (IFGC) including appendices A, B and
C, except as provided in section
8-2-9 of this chapter.
   E.   2012 international fire code (IFC) including appendices B and C, except
as provided in section
8-2-10 of this chapter.
   F.   2012 international property maintenance code (IPMC), except as provided
in section
8-2-11 of this chapter.
   G.   2011 NFPA 70 national electrical code (NEC), except as provided in
section
8-2-12 of this chapter.
   H.   2021 Illinois energy conservation code (IECC), except as provided in
section
8-2-13 of this chapter.
   I.   2014 Illinois plumbing code (IPC), except as provided in section
8-2-14 of this chapter.
   J.   2018 Illinois accessibility code (IAC), except as provided in section
8-2-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 7-24-2024)
8-2-6: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The provisions of the 2012 international building code are hereby deleted,
modified, and amended as follows:
   A.   Amend section 101.1 to read as follows:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the building code of the
village of North Barrington, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   B.   Amend section 101.4.3 to read as follows:
101.4.3 Plumbing. Plumbing systems and equipment shall be constructed,
installed and maintained in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code. Private
sewage disposal systems shall conform to the provisions of title 4 of the North
Barrington village code.
   C.   Amend section 101.4.6 to read as follows:
101.4.6 Energy. The provisions of the Illinois energy conservation code shall
apply to all matters governing the design and construction of buildings for
energy efficiency.
   D.   Delete sections 113.1 through 113.3 and insert the following:
Section 113.1 The Application For Appeal. Any person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the Board of Appeals. An application
for appeal shall be based only on a claim that the true intent of this code or
the rules legally adopted there under have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of
construction is to be used.
Section 113.2 Membership Of Board. The Board of Appeals shall be comprised of
the Village President and the Village Board of Trustees of North Barrington.
Section 113.3 Open Hearing. All hearings before the board shall be open to the
public and in compliance with the provisions of the open meetings act. The
appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official and any person
whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
Section 113.4 Board Decision. The board shall affirm, modify, or reverse the
decision of the code official by a concurring vote of a majority of its
members. The board can also remand the appeal back to the code official.
Section 113.5 Court Review. Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the nineteenth judicial circuit court
for Lake County for appropriate relief to correct errors of law. Application
for review shall be made in the manner and time required by the Illinois
administrative review law following the filing of the decision in the office of
the chief administrative officer.
   E.   Delete section 903.2 and section 903.3 together with subsections
903.2.1 through 903.2.12 and subsections 903.3.1 through 903.3.6 and replace
with the following:
903.2 Where Required And Installation Requirements. Every building or
structure, other than one- and two-family dwellings, shall be protected by an
approved automatic fire suppression system that meets the standards of NFPA 13
or other NFPA standard specified by the Fire Code Official. Compliance with
this requirement shall mean all building areas within the exterior walls
including basements, crawl spaces, bathrooms, and attics including the framing
members and roof sheathing. Not included in the above requirements are reach-in
closets of 24 square feet or less. No portion of a water-based fire protection
system that has water or a water-based solution within may be closer than one
foot to the interior surface of any exterior wall or wall that is adjacent to
an unheated area. Any enclosure built around any portion of a water-based fire
protection system to allow any portion of that system to be closer than one
foot from an exterior wall or wall adjacent to an unheated area shall be
designed in a manner that meets the approval of both the Fire Code Official and
the Building and Zoning Officer. In addition, all other requirements in the
2012 international building code chapter 9 Fire Protection Systems, not in
conflict with the above, shall be required.
Exception No. 1: Detached structures which comply with all of the following do
not require automatic fire sprinkler protection.
1. Less than one thousand (1000) square feet in floor area.
2. Single story.
3. Not used as a dwelling.
4. Not a high hazard use group.
5. Not used for high hazard products or hazardous materials storage.
6. No basement level.
7. Minimum 20 feet separation between buildings.
Exception No. 2: Real estate sales and construction trailers utilized during
the development of property when approved by the code official.
Exception No. 3: Agriculture storage buildings less than 8,000 square feet.
Exception No. 4: Detached structures accessory to one- and two-family
dwellings.
903.2.1 Warehouse And Storage Buildings. Unknown specification use and
occupancy for new warehouse buildings (use groups S or F) with a ceiling roof
height of 25 feet or greater to be protected with ESFR (early suppression fast
response) fire sprinkler system or a hydraulically calculated system for class
IV commodities with rack storage calculated to the greatest storage height.
903.2.2 Expansion Of Buildings Other Than One- And Two- Family Dwellings. When
a building, other than a one- and two-family dwelling, having less than 3,000
square feet of gross floor area is expanded at any time to a size of 3,000
square feet of gross floor area or more, then an automatic fire suppression
system shall be provided for the entire building that meets the appropriate
NFPA standard indicated in the above sections. This requirement shall apply
regardless of building separation, fire rated assemblies within the building,
or type of construction of the building.
903.2.3 Other Requirements For Existing Buildings To Install Sprinklers. Any
existing building, other than a one- and two-family dwelling, over 3,000 square
feet of gross floor area shall be required to install an approved automatic
fire sprinkler system meeting the standards of NFPA 13 and all requirements of
this chapter whenever one of the following occurs: a change of occupancy to a
hazard classification that exceeds the class of hazard of the prior occupancy
or the entire gross floor area of the building is included in a permit.
903.2.3.1 Whenever a residential structure is converted to a retail or
commercial use it shall be protected by an approved automatic fire suppression
system that meets the standards of NFPA 13D that is hereby modified to allow
approved CPVC plastic piping in basement installations regardless of
construction. That system shall include protection within any attached garage.
The sprinkler system shall be monitored with a fire alarm system that meets all
the provisions of this fire code.
903.2.4 Hose Threads. Fire hose threads and fittings used in connection with
automatic sprinkler systems shall be as prescribed by the Fire Code Official.
903.2.5 Fire Department Connections. The location of fire department
connections shall be approved by the Fire Code Official.
   F.   Delete section 903.4 and subsections 903.4.1 through 903.4.3 and
replace with the following:
903.4 Control Valves And Monitoring. All new and existing system fire
suppression control valves in buildings other than one- and two-family
dwellings shall be electronically monitored with the alarm transmitted to the
applicable fire protection district dispatch center in accordance with NFPA 72C
for remote stations. All new multi-occupant structures without common areas
shall have the automatic fire suppression system designed to provide separate
zone control valves and flow switches for each occupancy as well as main flow
alarm initiation devices and control valves. All new multi-story structures
shall have the automatic fire suppression system designed to provide separate
zone control valves and flow switches for each story as well as main flow alarm
initiation devices and control valves. All new control valves, including
required zone valves shall be installed three to five feet in height from the
floor.
903.4.1 System Monitoring. All new and existing fire suppression, detection,
and alarm systems shall be monitored with the alarm being transmitted to the
applicable fire protection district dispatch center in accordance with NFPA 72C
for remote stations. All such new connections shall be made by wireless
transmission compatible with the applicable fire protection district's wireless
alarm network, unless, because of exceptional circumstances, prior written
approval of a telephonic connection is granted by the Fire Code Official.
903.4.2 Evacuation Alarms. All fire suppression systems shall be equipped so
that, upon activation, an evacuation alarm shall sound that is heard throughout
the structure. In multi-occupancy structures with a common suppression system
each unit shall be equipped so that, upon activation, an evacuation signal
shall sound that is heard throughout each unit.
903.4.3 Flow Alarm Signals. A horn/white strobe light unit in an approved
weatherproof housing shall be installed above each fire department connection
for each automatic sprinkler system. In new multi-occupancy structures without
common areas a single common fire alarm system shall serve the entire structure
with an amber strobe that shall be installed at an approved exterior location
for each tenant space. These devices shall be designed to activate only when
the water flow device is activated. All other initiating devices installed for
each unit in a multi-occupancy structure without common areas shall not
activate the exterior signals and shall be compatible with the common system.
   G.   Add a new section 903.7 to read as follows:
903.7 Sprinkler Valve/Fire Pump Room. Any fire pump installed shall be enclosed
within a room meeting the following requirements. Every multi-occupant
structure that does not have common areas shall be provided with a sprinkler
room that meets the following minimum standards:
903.7.1 Label. The room shall be provided with a separate street address and
label on the exterior access door stating "SPRINKLER ROOM".
903.7.2 Door Swing. The exterior access door shall swing out.
903.7.3 Room Size. The interior dimension of the room shall be minimally 50
square feet with any dimension not being less than five feet.
903.7.4 Exterior Access. An approved sidewalk or paved area shall be provided
leading from a common way to the entrance of the sprinkler room.
903.7.5 Lighting. The interior shall be provided with adequate illumination and
emergency lighting. The exterior area adjacent to the sprinkler room door shall
be provided with adequate illumination.
903.7.6 Electrical Service. A separate approved electrical service panel shall
be provided within the room.
903.7.7 Other Equipment Or Storage Prohibited. Every sprinkler room shall
contain only approved fire protection equipment or mechanical equipment
specified in this section. No other mechanical equipment or storage will be
allowed.
903.7.8 Protection From Climate. Every sprinkler room shall be insulated
according to the prescriptive requirements of the Illinois energy conservation
code and provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining the
temperature of the entire room above 60 degrees Fahrenheit. A low temperature
alarm device shall be connected to the fire alarm system that initiates a
supervisory signal when the temperature reaches forty degrees Fahrenheit.
903.7.9 Alarm Panel. Fire alarm control panel shall be located within this
room. It shall be mounted on the wall with the top of the panel no higher than
six feet above the floor of the room. It shall be clearly accessible with no
obstructions nearer than eighteen inches from any edge of the panel. The panel
shall be mounted in a manner that protects it from water damage. A manual pull
station shall be mounted next to the alarm panel.
903.7.10 System Drains And Drain Valves. All portions of the sprinkler system
shall drain into the drain located in the sprinkler room or directly outside.
Any drain that terminates outside shall not cause water to collect within five
feet of electrical equipment, discharge within five feet of electrical
equipment, or cause other hazardous conditions to mechanical equipment or
public or private areas. All drain valves for common systems including the dry
system drain for the common attic area shall be located in the sprinkler room.
903.7.11 Floor Drain Required. A sanitary floor drain shall be installed in the
room sufficiently sized to meet the flow rate of any device, including the
backflow device. Floor drains serving backflow devices shall be sized in
accordance with the discharge rates of the manufacturer's flow charts of such
devices. The following table shall be used to determine the floor drain size:
 
Drain Size Flow Rate GPM
4"         88
6"         264
8"         575
10"        1050
12"        1700
 
903.7.12 Interior Walls. All interior walls within a sprinkler room shall use
water resistant gypsum backing board.
903.7.13 Fire Pump Test Header. Provide an outside test header on all fire pump
installations. An OS&Y control valve shall be provided on all fire pump test
headers.
   H.   Add the following paragraph to section 905.3:
905.3 Required Installations. All required standpipe systems shall be supplied
by a separate riser. The supply riser shall be hydraulically designed to supply
21/2" hose drops. The riser system shall be equipped with a separate control
valve and flow switch. The standpipe shall be a 21/2" gated connection with a
11/2" reducer and all locations shall be approved by the Fire Code Official.
All standpipe and sprinkler risers shall have separate control valves and flow
switches per floor.
   I.   Section 905.3.1 Height. Delete this section except for the exceptions
and insert the following:
905.3.1 Height. Class I standpipe systems shall be installed throughout
buildings or structures (1) in all newly constructed buildings so that all
areas in excess of 120 feet from the nearest point of entry to the building
shall be covered by a standpipe; (2) in all areas of existing structures which
have been remodeled or added to in such a manner that those areas are located
in excess of 120 feet from the nearest point of entry to the building; (3) in
all newly constructed buildings or structures two (2) or more stories in height
or more than one (1) story below the highest level of fire department vehicle
access so that all areas on those floors are within 120 feet of a standpipe;
and (4) in all buildings or structures more than two (2) stories in height or
more than one (1) story below the highest level of fire department vehicle
access which have been remodeled or added to in such a manner so that those
areas are located in excess of 120 feet from the nearest standpipe. The
standpipes shall be provided with a 21/2" to 11/2" reducer and cap with no fire
hose. There shall be an approved fire department connection at grade and hose
connections located at each floor level.
Exceptions 1 through 5 shall remain.
   J.   Section 906.1 Where Required. Delete the exception in number 1 and add
the following paragraph:
Exception: Where deemed necessary by the Fire Code Official based on plan
reviews, inspections of occupancies, or protection of processes and/or
activities, portable fire extinguishers shall be provided. Fire extinguishers
shall be a minimum 10 pound (4A:40-B: C) ABC dry chemical type unless approved
otherwise by the Fire Code Official. All fire extinguishers shall have location
signs and current services tags.
   K.   Amend section 1006.1 to read as follows:
1006.1 Illumination Required. The means of egress, including toilet rooms, and
the exit discharge shall be illuminated at all times the building space served
by the means of egress is occupied.
   L.   Delete chapter 11 in its entirety. The Illinois accessibility code
shall govern design and construction of facilities for accessibility to
physically disabled persons.
   M.   Amend section 1301.1.1 to read as follows:
1301.1 Buildings shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
Illinois energy conservation code.
   N.   Amend section 1612.3 to read as follows:
1612.3 Establishment Of Flood Hazard Areas. The flood insurance study (FIS) for
the village of North Barrington with the accompanying flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) and related supporting data are hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be part of this section.
   O.   Amend section 1809.5 item 1 to read as follows:
1. Extending Below The Frost Line Depth. Frost line depth is 42 inches.
   P.   Delete sections 2901.1 and 2902 in their entirety and substitute the
following:
2901.1 Plumbing systems and equipment shall be constructed, installed and
maintained in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code. Private sewage
disposal systems shall conform to the provisions of title 4 of the North
Barrington village code.
   Q.   Delete section 3001.2 and insert the following:
3001.2 Referenced Standards. The design construction, installation, alteration,
repair and maintenance of elevators and conveying systems and their components
shall comply with the standards and regulations established and enforced by the
office of the Illinois state fire marshal (OSFM). The design, construction,
installation, alteration, repair and maintenance of private residential
elevators shall comply with to ASME A17.1.
   R.   Delete section 3002.4 and insert the following:
3002.4 Elevator Car To Accommodate Ambulance Stretcher. Where elevators are
required at least one elevator shall be of such size and arrangement to
accommodate a 24-inch by 84-inch ambulance stretcher in the horizontal, open
position and shall be identified by the international symbol for emergency
medical service (Star of Life). The symbol shall not be less than 3-inches high
and shall be placed inside on both sides of the hoist way door frame.
   S.   Chapter 35 Referenced Standards.
Delete the references to the international plumbing code.
Delete the references to the international private sewage disposal code.
Delete the references to the international energy conservation code.
(Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-7: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The provisions of the 2012 international residential code are hereby deleted,
modified, and amended as follows:
   A.   Amend section R101.1 to read as follows:
R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the residential code of the
village of North Barrington, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   B.   Delete sections R112.1 through R112.4 and replace with the following:
R112.1 Refer to international building code section 113 as amended.
   C.   Amend table R301.2(1) to insert the design criteria as follows:
Ground Snow Load                  25 psf
Wind Design Speed              90 mph (3 second)
                                  76 mph (normal)
Wind Exposure Category            Exposure B
Wind Design Topographic Effects   No
Seismic Design Category           A
Weathering                        Severe
Frost Line Depth                  42 inches
Termite                           Slight/moderate
Winter Design Temperature         -4 degrees F
Ice Barrier Underlayment Required Yes
Flood Hazards                     North Barrington FIS
                                 Effective 09/18/2013
                                 FIRM panel numbers
                                 17097C0207K
                                 17097C0208K
                                 17097C0209K
                                 17097C0217K
                                 17097C0226K
                                 17097C0228K
                                 17097C0236K
Air Freezing Index                2000
Mean Annual Temp                  50 degrees
 
   D.   Delete sections R312.2 through R312.2.2.
   E.   Delete section R313 in its entirety.
   F.   Amend section R302.3 to read as follows:
R302.3 Two-Family Dwellings. Dwelling units in two-family dwellings (duplexes)
shall be separated from each other by wall and/or floor assemblies having not
less than a 2 hour fire-resistance rating when tested in accordance with ASTME
119. Fire-resistance-rated floor-ceiling assemblies shall extend to and be
tight against the exterior wall, and wall assemblies shall extend to the
underside of the roof sheathing.
   G.   Delete chapters 25, 27, 29, 30, 31, and 32 in their entirety. The
Illinois plumbing code shall govern the design, installation, alteration,
repair and replacement of plumbing systems. Any references to the international
plumbing code in this code shall be substituted with Illinois plumbing code.
   H.   Amend section AG105.2 as follows:
Delete items 6 and 7.
   I.   Referenced standards.
Delete the references to the international plumbing code.
Delete the references to the international private sewage disposal code.
Delete the references to the international energy conservation code.
   J.   Amend section R105.5 to read as follows:
R105.5 Expiration and Extension of Building Permit. All building permits shall
expire eighteen months from the date of issuance, regardless of whether the
project for which the permit was issued has been completed. If the Building and
Zoning Officer determines that due to the size or complexity of the project,
the eighteen month expiration should be extended, the Building and Zoning
Officer may extend the expiration date of the building permit for up to one (1)
year. Furthermore, every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on
the site authorized by such permit is commenced within one hundred eighty (180)
days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit
is suspended or abandoned for a period of ninety (90) days after the time the
work is commenced. The Building and Zoning Officer is authorized to grant, in
writing, one or more extensions of time for periods not to exceed one hundred
eighty (180) days each upon payment of fifty percent (50%) of the original
building permit fee.
(Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013; Ord. 2021-11, 9-15-2021)
8-2-8: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
The provisions of the 2012 international mechanical code are hereby deleted,
modified, and amended as follows:
   A.   Amend section 101.1 to read as follows:
101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the mechanical code of the
village of North Barrington, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   B.   Delete sections 109.1 through 109.7 and replace with the following:
109.1 Refer to international building code section 113 as amended.
   C.   Referenced standards.
Delete the references to the international plumbing code.
Delete the references to the international energy conservation code.
(Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-9: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
The provisions of the 2012 international fuel gas code are hereby deleted,
modified, and amended as follows:
   A.   Amend section 101.1 to read as follows:
101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the fuel gas code of the
village of North Barrington, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   B.   Delete sections 109.1 through 109.7 and replace with the following:
109.1 Refer to international building code section 113 as amended.
(Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-10: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The provisions of the 2012 international fire code are hereby deleted,
modified, and amended as follows:
   A.   Amend section 101.1 to read as follows:
101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the fire code of the village of
North Barrington, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   B.   Delete section 102.7 and insert the following:
102.7 Referenced Codes And Standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this code, listed in chapter 80 are hereby incorporated into this code and
shall be considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed
extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between the provisions
of this code and referenced standards, the provisions of this code as amended
shall apply.
   C.   Delete 103.1 and insert the following:
103.1 General. A Fire Prevention Bureau is hereby established within the
village of North Barrington under the direction of the Village Building and
Zoning Officer. The Village Building and Zoning Officer will utilize the Fire
Chief of the applicable fire protection district to fulfill the function of
Fire Code Official within all areas contained within the limits of the fire
protection district that are incorporated within the village boundaries. The
function of the Fire Prevention Bureau shall include, but not be limited to the
implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code
along with other duties deemed necessary in the interest of public safety.
   D.   Delete section 103.2 and insert the following:
103.2 Appointment. The Fire Chief of the applicable fire protection district,
hereafter referred to as the Fire Code Official, shall, by reason of said
position, appoint personnel within that fire protection district to assist in
enforcing this code as amended. Such appointments shall include, but be not
limited to a Fire Marshal, Assistant Fire Marshal Or Deputy Fire Marshal, and
as many inspectors, investigators, and public safety educators as may be
needed.
   E.   Amend section 105.6 to add and insert the following:
105.6 Required Operational Permits. Operational permits shall be obtained from
the appropriate fire protection district for the operations set forth in
sections 105.6.1 through 105.6.46. Permits shall be valid only for the calendar
year they were issued for, or until the expiration date on the permit for
temporary permits. A new permit along with the fee set forth in section 105.8
shall be required each calendar year. Issued permits shall be kept on the
premises designated therein at all times and shall be readily available for
inspection by any code official.
   F.   Add a new section 105.8 to read as follows:
105.8 Operational Permit Fees. (Annual Permit Fee Or Event) The following fees
are established for any operational permits required by this code, and shall be
submitted along with the permit application: Any operational permit listed in
sections 105.6.1 through 105.6.46 shall be $50.00 for each permit up to a
maximum of two permits for any occupancy per calendar year. All fees shall be
payable to the applicable fire protection district.
   G.   Delete sections 108.1 through 108.3 and replace with the following:
108.1 Refer to international building code section 113 as amended.
   H.   Add as new section 305.1.1 to read as follows:
305.1.1 Fuel Burning Appliances Located In Garages. Any fuel burning appliance
located in a garage area of any occupancy mounted less than six feet above the
floor shall be enclosed with a one-hour fire rated enclosure with makeup air
taken from the exterior, not the garage area.
Exception: Any fuel burning appliance that is American Gas Association
certified, with a safe, sealed combustion chamber (no open flame) designed with
an intermittent ignition device and make-up air taken from the exterior not the
garage.
   I.   Add a new section 305.5 to read as follows:
305.5 Portable Heaters. Portable heaters shall be designed and located so that
they cannot be easily overturned, and heaters shall be designed to shut off if
overturned. The Fire Code Official may prohibit the use of portable heaters in
occupancies or situations in which such use or operation would present an undue
danger to the life or property of others.
   J.   Add an additional subsection 404.6 as follows:
404.6 Pre-Plan Drawings. To assist the fire department develop pre-plans for
fire emergencies, all new development, except single-family detached dwelling,
is required to present as-built drawings prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy. Drawings shall indicate a full site plan and a complete interior
floor plan. Where practical the drawings shall be in an electronic computer
aided drawing format, but in all cases in format acceptable to the fire
department.
   K.   Amend section 503.2.1 to read as follows:
503.2.1 Dimensions. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed
width of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm), except for approved security gates in
accordance with section 503.6 and 503.7.12, and an unobstructed vertical
clearance of not less than 15 feet.
   L.   Add a new section 503.7 to read as follows:
503.7 Fire Lanes. Approved fire lanes shall be provided for every new
development for fire apparatus access to all facilities, buildings, or portions
of buildings except single-family detached dwellings hereafter constructed or
occupied within the jurisdiction.
503.7.1 Existing Fire Lanes. Fire lanes for all existing facilities, buildings,
or portions of buildings except single-family detached dwellings shall be
maintained as originally approved and shall be considered compliant with this
code. Exception: At any time that the surface area of an existing fire lane or
parking area is removed or replaced the fire lanes within the parking area only
shall be designed to meet this code. Any required change made to the design of
an existing parking area to meet this code shall not require any increase or
alteration of the boundaries or limits of the existing area as defined by
curbs, buildings, portions of buildings, and edge of pavement, but shall be
applicable only to marking and signage as may be required by this code.
503.7.2 Access To Fire Protection Features. Fire lanes shall provide direct
access to all sprinkler rooms and fire department connections by fire
apparatus. A clear width of four feet (4') shall be provided that allows no
parking directly in front of the fire department connection.
503.7.3 Number Of Fire Lanes. Fire lanes shall be provided on at least one side
of any facility or building and on as many sides of the facility or building as
necessary to reach every portion of the first floor of the building that
extends further than one hundred and fifty feet (150') from the exterior wall
adjacent to any fire lane. All multi- occupancy structures, other than
residential structures less than three stories in height, shall provide fire
lanes along the two longest sides of the structure.
503.7.4 Alternative Approval. The Fire Code Official may allow for the required
number or arrangement of fire lanes to be varied where an approved alternate
means of access is provided or where existing conditions do not allow
compliance.
503.7.5 Widths. Fire lanes shall be a minimum solid width, measured edge of
pavement to edge of pavement, where used as follows:
503.7.5.1 Emergency Vehicles Only. When utilized as a fire apparatus access
road dedicated for the use of emergency vehicles only with no parking allowed
the minimum width shall be twenty feet (20').
503.7.5.2 Common Driveway - No Parking. When utilized as a fire apparatus
access road and a common driveway when no parking is allowed the minimum width
shall be twenty-four feet (24').
503.7.5.3 Parking Aisles. When serving as a fire apparatus access road and as
an aisle adjacent to or between parking stalls that allow vehicles to move in
two directions the minimum width shall be twenty-four feet (24'), from edge of
stripe to edge of stripe or edge of stripe to edge of pavement. When serving as
a fire apparatus access road and as an aisle adjacent to or between parking
stalls that allow vehicles to move in one direction the minimum width shall be
eighteen feet (18'), from edge of stripe to edge of stripe or edge of stripe to
edge of pavement.
503.7.5.4 Multi-Occupancy Structures. All multi-occupancy structures, other
than residential structures less than three stories in height, shall provide
fire lanes along the two longest sides of the structure that are a minimum
width of thirty feet (30').
503.7.5.5 Ingress And Egress. When utilized as those portions of the driveway
that provide ingress and egress for vehicles to the facility or building or
those areas used for parking of vehicles at the facility or building the
minimum width shall be thirty feet (30').
503.7.5.6 Existing Usage. Where existing parking lot usage restricts full lane
width, the Fire Code Official may permit the existing condition to remain.
503.7.6 Vertical Clearance. All fire lanes shall have a vertical clearance of
not less than fifteen feet (15').
503.7.7 Construction Standard. Fire lanes shall be constructed to a structural
index of IBR 3.0 or greater and shall be provided with an all-weather surface
(example concrete or asphalt). All fire lanes shall be pitched in such a manner
as to allow the runoff of water and eliminate the potential of standing water.
The Fire Code Official may allow for the construction standard of fire lanes to
be varied where an approved alternate means is provided or where conditions do
not allow compliance. All fire lanes shall be a level driving surface. No fire
lane shall be allowed to have speed bumps, gates, ramps or other obstructions
to a smooth continuous path of travel without permission from the Fire Code
Official.
503.7.8 Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
maintain this surface in a usable condition at all times, including the removal
of snow.
503.7.9 Marking And Signage. All fire lanes shall be clearly marked to indicate
their location.
503.7.9.1 Curbs. All associated curbs, on top and side of curbs, or pavement
areas shall be painted bright yellow or in an approved manner that defines the
limits of the fire lane.
503.7.9.2 Signs. Those portions of the fire lane that restrict parking shall be
provided with reflective twelve (12) inch by eighteen (18) inch signs stating
"No Parking - Fire Lane" that are posted every fifty feet (50'). Those portions
of the fire lane that restrict access to emergency vehicles shall be provided
with reflective signs stating "Emergency Vehicles Only" that are posted on both
sides of the lane at each end. All required signs shall be mounted in an
approved manner on posts or on a surface of the building with the bottom height
of the sign portion no less than seven (7') feet from the ground. All required
signs shall be red lettering on a white background and meet all specifications
listed in the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (2003 edition). All
signs that are located adjacent to pedestrian walks and are mounted on posts
are required to be an approved safety design.
503.7.9.3 Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
maintain the painted curbs and signs in proper condition at all times.
503.7.10 Obstructions. All portions, from ingress to egress of any required
fire lane, shall allow for continuous movement of fire apparatus that are not
obstructed by curb, portion of the building, or other barrier or obstruction
including any mechanical attachments to the structure.
503.7.11 Turning Radius. Any turns in the fire lane shall provide the required
width and turning radii no less than twelve (12) feet. No portion of a required
fire lane may dead-end in excess of one hundred and fifty feet (150'). The Fire
Code Official may allow for the turning radius or the length of a dead-end to
be varied where an approved alternate is provided or where existing conditions
do not allow compliance.
503.7.12 Gates And Barricades. Any secured gates or barricades allowed, whether
required or not, shall allow for fire apparatus passage through a gate with a
clear opening of not less than fourteen feet (14'). All secured gates shall
allow access to fire apparatus by means of an approved knox product or traffic
preemption device.
   M.   Delete section 506.1 and replace with the following:
506.1 Where Required. Every structure equipped with any fire detection,
suppression, or alarm system shall have a supervised entry system (knox box
4400 series), approved by the Fire Code Official, at a height of five feet (5')
above grade level in a location approved by the Fire Code Official. Larger
sized knox products may be required by the Fire Code Official where the
occupancy exceeds 40,000 square feet or has other hazards or conditions that
warrant the product in the opinion of the Fire Chief. Additional knox boxes may
be required for any structure that exceeds 300 feet of travel distance around
the exterior of the structure. Key boxes shall contain two sets of keys to
locked points of ingress, whether on the interior or the exterior of the
structure, and to locked mechanical, electrical, and elevator control rooms,
and other areas as directed by the Fire Code Official. All exterior doors that
access areas common to the overall structure for each structure are required to
have hardware that will allow exterior access into the building with use of a
single master key whenever possible. The exterior doors that access an
individual retail or commercial occupant are required to have hardware that
will allow exterior access into the occupancy with use of a single master key
whenever possible that is different than the common key.
   N.   Delete section 506.2 and replace with the following:
506.2 Key Lock Box Maintenance. The operator of the building or occupancy shall
immediately notify the Fire Code Official and provide the new key when a lock
is changed or re-keyed. The key to such lock shall be secured in the key lock
box. The users shall be responsible for the proper installation and maintenance
of such key lock boxes, at their expense, and shall agree to indemnify and hold
harmless any elected officials, officers, employees, and agents of the village
of North Barrington or any fire protection district from any liability with
respect to such key lock boxes.
   O.   Amend section 507.1 to add the following as additional requirements:
507.1.1 General. All water distribution facilities including piping, fittings,
hydrants, valves, devices, well pumps, and other needful appurtenances shall be
subject to approval of the Fire Code Official and shall be installed according
to the standards herein adopted. A water supply system shall be capable of
supplying the hydrants prior to the construction of structures. It shall be
unlawful to erect, alter, use or occupy any structure that has been deemed to
have inadequate water supply.
507.1.2 Water Supply Demand Changes. Area water supplies shall be studied
whenever additional demands will be placed on the water supply by new
construction, change in use, or changes in hazard or contents. Standard fire
flow calculation methods will be used to make determinations. Upon
determination by the Fire Code Official that inadequate water supplies exist,
the Fire Code Official shall reject any applicable plans and provide the
property owner, the water utility, and the Building and Zoning Officer with a
memorandum listing said deficiencies.
507.1.3 Rural Water Supply Requirements (Dry Hydrants). In any subdivision/
development, where an adequate water distribution system is not provided, the
Fire Code Official may require the sub-divider, developer, builder and/or the
owner to modify storm water control devices, so as to provide a pond within a
maximum distance of 2,000 feet of all buildings within the development. It
shall conform to the standard of NFPA 1142. The pond must be a minimum depth of
five (5) feet and provide a minimum supply of available water to be determined
by the Fire Code Official. (See IFC appendix B for additional rural water
supply requirements.)
   P.   Amend section 507.3 to add the following as additional requirements:
507.3.1 Minimum Flow Requirements. Each fire hydrant shall be provided with an
adequate water supply so as to develop a minimum individual supply of not less
than one thousand (1,000) gallons per minute (gpm) flow with not less than 20
pounds per square inch residual pressure for a public water supply system.
507.3.2 Adopt IFC Appendix B - Fire Flow For Buildings.
   Q.   Delete section 507.5.1 and exceptions and insert the following:
507.5.1 Where Required. The maximum hydrant spacing shall not exceed three
hundred (300) feet between hydrants and from the furthest point of any building
or structure as measured by an approved access route around the exterior of the
facility or building unless otherwise approved by the Fire Code Official. Where
the configuration of lots, distances between buildings and lot lines or public
utility easements, accessibility to buildings for fire suppression requirements
dictate, the Fire Code Official shall increase or decrease hydrant spacing and
appropriate supply mains as deemed necessary.
   R.   Add new sections 507.5.1.1 and 507.5.1.2 to read as follows:
507.5.1.1 Adopt IFC Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Locations And Distribution.
507.5.1.2 General. Additional fire hydrants shall be located within one hundred
(100) feet of any fire department connection (FDC). Hydrants shall not be
installed on a water main less than eight (8) inches in diameter. Dead end
water mains shall not to exceed one hundred (100) feet. It is recommended that
a looped water main system be required for each structure or group of
structures.
   S.   Add new sections 507.5.7 through 507.5.9 to read as follows:
507.5.7 Identification. All fire hydrants public or private shall be marked
with a number, hydrant flag and painted a color approved by the Fire Code
Official. Dry fire hydrants shall be provided with signs as provided in
appendix B of this code.
507.5.8 Apartment And Cluster Type Housing. In areas where apartment buildings,
town/row houses, condominium buildings, or other types of cluster-type housing
are located, the area along the roadway within seven and one-half feet on
either side of the fire hydrant shall be designated as "NO PARKING" and either
the curb shall be painted yellow or "NO PARKING" signs shall be installed (or
both).
507.5.9 Unauthorized Use. It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize any
device such as a fire hydrant, drafting hydrant, dry hydrant, or other water
supply appurtenances designed for fire suppression operations without the
express permission of the Fire Code Official.
   T.   Add a new section 511.1 to read as follows:
511.1 Elevator Car Requirements. Where elevators are required elevator cars are
to accommodate the ambulance stretcher. In the buildings two stories in height
or more, at least one elevator shall be of such a size and arrangement to
accommodate a 24-inch by 84-inch ambulance stretcher in the horizontal, open
position and shall be identified by the international symbol for emergency
medical services (Star of Life). The symbol shall not be less than 3 inches
high and shall be placed inside on both sides of the hoist way doorframe. The
inside hand rail shall be set at the maximum thirty six (36) inch height
allowed under ADA standards to better accommodate the stretcher. The cab size
is to be minimum a 5' x 7' platform and minimum 2500 lb capacity with a 42"
side slide door.
   U.   Add the following new sections 609.4 through 609.4.2 to read as
follows:
609.4 Required Kitchen Hood Fire Suppression Systems. All required commercial
or other occupancy kitchen exhaust hood and duct system shall be protected with
an approved wet chemical fire suppression system installed and maintained per
NFPA 17, and UL 300 standard. Every required automatic fire suppression system,
when activated shall transmit a fire alarm signal to the appropriate fire
protection district dispatch center via an approved fire alarm system.
609.4.1 Maintenance. Commercial kitchen exhaust systems shall be cleaned to
remove deposits of residue and grease in the system at intervals specified in
the cleaning schedule required to be submitted in accordance with the
mechanical code listed in chapter 47. Thorough cleaning of ducts, hoods and
fans shall require scraping, brushing or other positive cleaning methods.
609.4.2 Cleaning Schedule. Where a cleaning schedule is not on file, the Fire
Code Official shall require a schedule to be submitted, indicating the method
of cleaning and the time intervals between cleanings.
   V.   Add a new section 611.1 to read as follows:
611.1 General. All parking structures, whether above or below grade, or whether
attached or separated from any other structure, shall meet the following
standards:
611.1.1 Suppression System. All open-parking and below-grade parking structures
shall be provided with a dry automatic fire suppression system meeting the
standards of NFPA 13.
611.1.2 Area Limitation And Construction Type. Any underground parking
structure shall be limited in area to 40,000 square feet per level without 4
hour firewall separation. Any underground parking structure shall require type
I construction.
611.1.3 Standpipes. A dry class I standpipe system shall be provided in any
parking structure. All piping shall be corrosion resistant. Each standpipe
connection shall be placed in an approved standardized location with each
connection being no greater than 250 feet from another connection.
611.1.4 Ventilation Fans. An approved PPV fan shall be provided in a clearly
labeled cabinet or closet.
611.1.5 Corrosion Resistant Piping. All piping (sprinkler, standpipe, drainage,
electrical conduit) shall be corrosion- resistant.
611.1.6 Mechanical Above-Grade. No sprinkler, alarm, mechanical, electrical
rooms or equipment shall be located below-grade.
611.1.7 Elevators. All elevator cars should be sized to allow access by a cot
24 inches by 84 inches. Additional ingress/egress doors or stairs or elevators
may be required beyond what the minimum standards of the code require.
611.1.8 Emergency Call System. An approved emergency assistance call system
shall be required.
611.1.9 Signs. Reflective "street signs" shall be provided near each ingress/
egress point in the structure to indicate which street or streets the ingress/
egress point is adjacent.
611.1.10 Haz-Mat Equipment. Spill kit cabinets and approved supplies shall be
provided to mitigate fuel leaks.
611.1.11 Storage Closets. All below-grade parking structures shall provide a
closet on each level for each fire area of 40,000 square feet at one approved
ingress/egress point with an interior dimension of 50 square feet with any
dimension not less than five feet that shall be used to store equipment and
supplies essential to fire protection or emergency management.
   W.   Amend section 901.6 to read as follows:
901.6 Inspection, Testing And Maintenance. The owner of a building, other than
a one- and two-family dwelling, having fire detection, alarm, and one or more
extinguishing systems shall have each such fire protection system maintained in
an operative condition at all times, shall have each system tested by an
approved licensed contractor at least once each calendar year and shall submit
to the fire official a copy of the test results, and shall be replaced or
repaired where defective. Non-required fire protection systems and equipment
shall be inspected, tested and maintained or removed.
   X.   Delete section 903.2 and section 903.3 together with subsections
903.2.1 through 903.2.12 and subsections 903.3.1 through 903.3.7 and replace
with the following:
903.2 Where Required And Installation Requirements. Every building or
structure, other than one- and two-family dwellings, shall be protected by an
approved automatic fire suppression system that meets the standards of NFPA 13
or other NFPA standard specified by the Fire Code Official. Compliance with
this requirement shall mean all building areas within the exterior walls
including basements, crawl spaces, bathrooms, and attics including the framing
members and roof sheathing. Not included in the above requirements are reach-in
closets of 24 square feet or less. No portion of a water-based fire protection
system that has water or a water-based solution within may be closer than one
foot to the interior surface of any exterior wall or wall that is adjacent to
an unheated area. Any enclosure built around any portion of a water-based fire
protection system to allow any portion of that system to be closer than one
foot from an exterior wall or wall adjacent to an unheated area shall be
designed in a manner that meets the approval of both the Fire Code Official and
the Building and Zoning Officer. In addition, all other requirements in the
international building code chapter 9 Fire Protection Systems, not in conflict
with the above, shall be required.
Exception No. 1: Detached structures which comply with all of the following do
not require automatic fire sprinkler protection.
      1.   Less than one thousand (1000) square feet in floor area.
      2.   Single story.
      3.   Not used as a dwelling.
      4.   Not a high hazard use group.
      5.   Not used for high hazard products or hazardous materials storage.
      6.   No basement level.
      7.   Minimum 20 feet separation between buildings.
Exception No. 2: Real estate sales and construction trailers utilized during
the development of property when approved by the code official.
Exception No. 3: Agriculture storage buildings less than 8,000 square feet.
Exception No. 4: Detached structures accessory to one- and two-family
dwellings.
903.2.1 Warehouse And Storage Buildings. Unknown specification use and
occupancy for new warehouse buildings (use groups S or F) with a ceiling roof
height of 25 feet or greater to be protected with ESFR (early suppression fast
response) fire sprinkler system or a hydraulically calculated system for class
IV commodities with rack storage calculated to the greatest storage height.
903.2.2 Expansion Of Buildings Other Than One- And Two- Family Dwellings. When
a building, other than a one- and two-family dwelling, having less than 3,000
square feet of gross floor area is expanded at any time to a size of 3,000
square feet of gross floor area or more, then an automatic fire suppression
system shall be provided for the entire building that meets the appropriate
NFPA standard indicated in the above sections. This requirement shall apply
regardless of building separation, fire rated assemblies within the building,
or type of construction of the building.
903.2.3 Other Requirements For Existing Buildings To Install Sprinklers. Any
existing building, other than one- and two- family dwellings, over 3,000 square
feet of gross floor area shall be required to install an approved automatic
fire sprinkler system meeting the standards of NFPA 13 and all requirements of
this chapter whenever one of the following occurs: a change of occupancy to a
hazard classification that exceeds the class of hazard of the prior occupancy
or the entire gross floor area of the building is included in a permit.
903.2.3.1 Whenever a residential structure is converted to a retail or
commercial use it shall be protected by an approved automatic fire suppression
system that meets the standards of NFPA 13D that is hereby modified to allow
approved CPVC plastic piping in basement installations regardless of
construction. That system shall include protection within any attached garage.
The sprinkler system shall be monitored with a fire alarm system that meets all
the provisions of this fire code.
903.2.4 Hose Threads. Fire hose threads and fittings used in connection with
automatic sprinkler systems shall be as prescribed by the Fire Code Official.
903.2.5 Fire Department Connections. The location of fire department
connections shall be approved by the Fire Code Official.
   Y.   Delete section 903.4 and subsections 903.4.1 through 903.4.3 and
replace with the following:
903.4 Control Valves And Monitoring. All new and existing system fire
suppression control valves in buildings other than one- and two-family
dwellings shall be electronically monitored with the alarm transmitted to the
applicable fire protection district dispatch center in accordance with NFPA 72C
for remote stations. All new multi-occupant structures without common areas
shall have the automatic fire suppression system designed to provide separate
zone control valves and flow switches for each occupancy as well as main flow
alarm initiation devices and control valves. All new multi-story structures
shall have the automatic fire suppression system designed to provide separate
zone control valves and flow switches for each story as well as main flow alarm
initiation devices and control valves. All new control valves, including
required zone valves shall be installed three to five feet in height from the
floor.
903.4.1 System Monitoring. All new and existing fire suppression, detection,
and alarm systems shall be monitored with the alarm being transmitted to the
applicable fire protection district dispatch center in accordance with NFPA 72C
for remote stations. All such new connections shall be made by wireless
transmission compatible with the applicable fire protection district's wireless
alarm network, unless, because of exceptional circumstances, prior written
approval of a telephonic connection is granted by the Fire Code Official.
903.4.2 Evacuation Alarms. All fire suppression systems shall be equipped so
that, upon activation, an evacuation alarm shall sound that is heard throughout
the structure. In multi-occupancy structures with a common suppression system
each unit shall be equipped so that, upon activation, an evacuation signal
shall sound that is heard throughout each unit.
903.4.3 Flow Alarm Signals. A horn/white strobe light unit in an approved
weatherproof housing shall be installed above each fire department connection
for each automatic sprinkler system. In new multi-occupancy structures without
common areas a single common fire alarm system shall serve the entire structure
with an amber strobe that shall be installed at an approved exterior location
for each tenant space. These devices shall be designed to activate only when
the waterflow device is activated. All other initiating devices installed for
each unit in a multi-occupancy structure without common areas shall not
activate the exterior signals and shall be compatible with the common system.
   Z.   Add a new section 903.7 to read as follows:
903.7 Sprinkler Valve/Fire Pump Room. Any fire pump installed shall be enclosed
within a room meeting the following requirements. Every multi-occupant
structure that does not have common areas shall be provided with a sprinkler
room that meets the following minimum standards:
903.7.1 Label. The room shall be provided with a separate street address and
label on the exterior access door stating "SPRINKLER ROOM".
903.7.2 Door Swing. The exterior access door shall swing out.
903.7.3 Room Size. The interior dimension of the room shall be minimally 30
square feet with any dimension not being less than four feet for any
residential structure and minimally 50 square feet with any dimension not being
less than five feet in any commercial structure.
903.7.4 Exterior Access. An approved sidewalk or paved area shall be provided
leading from a common way to the entrance of the sprinkler room.
903.7.5 Lighting. The interior shall be provided with adequate illumination and
emergency lighting. The exterior area adjacent to the sprinkler room door shall
be provided with adequate illumination.
903.7.6 Electrical Service. A separate approved electrical service panel shall
be provided within the room.
903.7.7 Other Equipment Or Storage Prohibited. Every sprinkler room shall
contain only approved fire protection equipment or mechanical equipment
specified in this section. No other mechanical equipment or storage will be
allowed.
903.7.8 Protection From Climate. Every sprinkler room shall be insulated
according to the prescriptive requirements of the Illinois energy conservation
code and provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining the
temperature of the entire room above 60 degrees Fahrenheit. A low temperature
alarm device shall be connected to the fire alarm system that initiates a
supervisory signal when the temperature reaches forty degrees Fahrenheit.
903.7.9 Alarm Panel. Fire alarm control panel shall be located within this
room. It shall be mounted on the wall with the top of the panel no higher than
six feet above the floor of the room. It shall be clearly accessible with no
obstructions nearer than eighteen inches from any edge of the panel. The panel
shall be mounted in a manner that protects it from water damage. A manual pull
station shall be mounted next to the alarm panel.
903.7.10 System Drains And Drain Valves. All portions of the sprinkler system
shall drain into the drain located in the sprinkler room or directly outside.
Any drain that terminates outside shall not cause water to collect within five
feet of electrical equipment, discharge within five feet of electrical
equipment, or cause other hazardous conditions to mechanical equipment or
public or private areas. All drain valves for common systems including the dry
system drain for the common attic area shall be located in the sprinkler room.
903.7.11 Floor Drain Required. A sanitary floor drain shall be installed in the
room sufficiently sized to meet the flow rate of any device, including the
backflow device. Floor drains serving backflow devices shall be sized in
accordance with the discharge rates of the manufacturer's flow charts of such
devices. The following table shall be used to determine the floor drain size:
 
Drain Size Flow Rate GPM
4"         88
6"         264
8"         575
10"        1050
12"        1700
 
903.7.12 Interior Walls. All interior walls within a sprinkler room shall use
water resistant gypsum backing board.
903.7.13 Fire Pump Test Header. Provide an outside test header on all fire pump
installations. An OS&Y control valve shall be provided on all fire pump test
headers.
   AA.   Add the following paragraph to section 905.3:
905.3 Required Installations. All required standpipe systems shall be supplied
by a separate riser. The supply riser shall be hydraulically designed to supply
21/2" hose drops. The riser system shall be equipped with a separate control
valve and flow switch. The standpipe shall be a 21/2" gated connection with a
11/2" reducer and all locations shall be approved by the Fire Code Official.
All standpipe and sprinkler risers shall have separate control valves and flow
switches per floor.
   BB.   Section 905.3.1 Height. Delete this section except for the exceptions
and insert the following:
905.3.1 Height. Class I standpipe systems shall be installed throughout
buildings or structures (1) in all newly constructed buildings so that all
areas in excess of 120 feet from the nearest point of entry to the building
shall be covered by a standpipe; (2) in all areas of existing structures which
have been remodeled or added to in such a manner that those areas are located
in excess of 120 feet from the nearest point of entry to the building; (3) in
all newly constructed buildings or structures two (2) or more stories in height
or more than one (1) story below the highest level of fire department vehicle
access so that all areas on those floors are within 120 feet of a standpipe;
and (4) in all buildings or structures more than two (2) stories in height or
more than one (1) story below the highest level of fire department vehicle
access which have been remodeled or added to in such a manner so that those
areas are located in excess of 120 feet from the nearest standpipe. The
standpipes shall be provided with a 21/2" to 11/2" reducer and cap with no fire
hose. There shall be an approved fire department connection at grade and hose
connections located at each floor level.
Exceptions 1 through 5 shall remain.
   CC.   Section 906.1 Where Required. Delete the exception in number 1 and add
the following paragraph:
Exception: Where deemed necessary by the Fire Code Official based on plan
reviews, inspections of occupancies, or protection of processes and/or
activities, portable fire extinguishers shall be provided. Fire extinguishers
shall be a minimum 10 pound (4A:40-B: C) ABC dry chemical type unless approved
otherwise by the Fire Code Official. All fire extinguishers shall have location
signs and current services tags.
   DD.   Amend section 1006.1 to read as follows:
1006.1 Illumination Required. The means of egress, including toilet rooms, and
the exit discharge shall be illuminated at all times the building space served
by the means of egress is occupied.
   EE.   Delete section 5601.1.3 and exceptions and replace with the following:
5601.1.3 Fireworks. The possession, manufacture, storage, sale, advertisement,
handling, and use of fireworks are prohibited.
Exceptions:
1. The use of fireworks for display as permitted in section 5608.
   FF.   Add the following definition to section 5602.1:
Consumer Novelties. Consumer novelties shall mean: (i) snakes, glow worm
pellets, smoke devices, trick noisemakers (known as party poppers), toy booby
traps, snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, auto burglar alarms, toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns, and other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive compound are used, provided they
are constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in
place for the explosion, and (ii) toy pistol paper or plastic caps which
contain less than 0.25 grains of explosive mixture.
   GG.   Delete the definition of "Fireworks, 1.4G" from section 5602.1 and
replace with the following:
Fireworks, 1.4G. (Formerly known as class C, common fireworks.) Small fireworks
devices, including handheld wire sparklers, containing restricted amounts of
pyrotechnic composition designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion. Such 1.4G fireworks that comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the DOT for fireworks, UN
0336, and the U.S. consumer product safety commission as set forth in CPSC 16
CFR: parts 1500 and 1507 are not explosive materials for the purpose of this
code.
   HH.   Add the following additional subsection 5608.1.1:
5608.1.1 Indoor Displays Prohibited. The use of any type of fireworks,
novelties, or display or pyrotechnic special effects in theatrical or group
entertainment shall be prohibited within a structure of any use group.
   II.   Amend subsection 5608.2.1 to read as follows:
5608.2.1 Outdoor Displays. In addition to the requirements of section 403
(Public Assemblages And Event), permit applications for outdoor fireworks
displays using division 1.3G fireworks shall include a diagram of the location
at which the display will be conducted, including the site from which fireworks
will be discharged; the location of buildings, highways, overhead obstructions,
and utilities; and the lines behind which the audience will be restrained. All
outdoor fireworks displays shall be electronically fired from an approved
electronic firing unit.
   JJ.   Add the following additional subsection 5608.8.1 to read as follows:
5608.8.1 Display Site Restricted. No spectators or spectator parking areas
shall be located within the display site. No vehicles shall be parked within
the discharge area following the start of connection of the first circuit to
the electronic firing unit.
   KK.   Add new section 5608.11 to read as follows:
5608.11 Display And Sale Forbidden. It shall be unlawful to display, sell,
store, or advertise for sale any division 1.4G or 1.3G fireworks within the
village.
   LL.   Add as additional sections to appendix B the following:
B103.4 Dry Hydrants. In any subdivision/development, where a water distribution
system is not provided, the Fire Code Official may require the subdivider,
developer, builder and/or owner to modify storm water control devices, so as to
provide a pond with a minimum depth of five (5) feet and to install a dry
hydrant that conforms to the standard of NFPA 1142 and with a suction pipe from
the middle of the pond. The developer shall provide the fire protection
district with an engineered drawing indicating the minimum required volume of
water and complete "fifty-year drought study" certification of the required
water supply. The dry hydrant shall be installed on the right of way of a
street proposed to be installed within the subdivision/development and shall
meet the standards established by the fire protection district. Where a pond is
not practical, a tank system with adequate water storage capacity may be
required.
It shall be unlawful to erect any structure in any subdivision/development
prior to completion of any required water supply equipment as required by this
code.
B103.4.1 Additional Hydrants. Where the configuration of lots, distance between
buildings and lot lines or public utility easements, accessibility to building
or fire suppression requirements dictate, the Fire Code Official may require
additional hydrants as deemed necessary.
B103.4.2 Required Flow. The total gallons per minute, which dry hydrants shall
be required to produce, shall be determined by the structure being served by
the hydrant. In no case shall the hydrant produce less than 1,000 gallons per
minute.
B103.4.3 Location Approval. The precise location of and specifications for dry
hydrant(s) shall be subject to the review and approval by the Fire Code
Official prior to the installation of the system.
B103.4.4 Additional Review. The dry hydrant plan submitted for review may be
subject to review by an outside engineer or code consultant. The submitted
party will incur all associated costs.
B103.4.5 Unlawful Use. It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize any
device such as drafting pits, dry hydrants or other water supply appurtenances
designed for fire fighting operations without the express permission of the
village and the Fire Code Official.
B103.4.6 Maintenance. All dry hydrants shall be maintained free from
obstructions. The access to any area surrounding the dry hydrant shall be
properly cleared of obstacles, which may hide or impede the use of the dry
hydrant. Furthermore, the hydrant shall be maintained in working order at all
times, capable of delivering the minimum required flow. Responsibility of
maintaining, repairing, replacing and/or dredging all hydrants within a
subdivision shall be the responsibility of the appropriate homeowner's
association. In the absence of a homeowners association, each dry hydrant will
be addressed on an individual basis.
B103.4.7 Signs. The Fire Code Official shall require the property owner or his
agent to install "No Parking - Fire Hydrant", or other signs as needed.
(Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-11: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The provisions of the 2012 international property maintenance code are hereby
deleted, modified, and amended as follows:
   A.   Amend section 101.1 to read as follows:
101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the property maintenance code
of the village of North Barrington, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   B.   Delete sections 111.1 through 111.8 and replace with the following:
111.1 Refer to international building code section 113 as amended.
   C.   Amend section 602.3 to insert October 1st to May 1st.
   D.   Amend section 602.4 to insert October 1st to May 1st.
(Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-12: AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
The provisions of the 2011 national electrical code are hereby deleted,
modified, and amended as follows:
   A.   Underground Service; Exceptions:
      1.   All service shall be underground; except that in existing
subdivision areas already served overhead, an overhead service drop may be
used, provided it is not greater than one hundred thirty five feet (135') in
length or is specifically approved by the Building and Zoning Officer.
      2.   Revised or new utility distribution shall be underground unless
overhead distribution is specifically approved by the Village Board.
      3.   Utility distribution shall be underground for all new installations
in subdivisions and planned developments.
(Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-13: AMENDMENTS TO ILLINOIS ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
There are no amendments to the Illinois energy conservation code. (Ord. 1233,
4-24-2013)
8-2-14: AMENDMENTS TO ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE:
There are no amendments to the Illinois plumbing code. (Ord. 1233, 4-24-2013)
8-2-15: AMENDMENTS TO ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY CODE:
There are no amendments to the Illinois accessibility code. (Ord. 1233, 4-24-
2013)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Permit And Compliance Required
8-3-2: Application For Permit
8-3-3: Action On Permit Application
8-3-4: Permit To Be Posted
8-3-5: Fee Schedule
8-3-1: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It is hereby required that a permit be obtained in advance and all other
requirements of the building code and the provisions of this title be complied
with whenever a building or structure, or parts or appurtenances thereof, such
as water supply, sewage disposal, plumbing installation and electrical
installation, located in the Village, is erected, installed, altered,
converted, remodeled, structurally repaired, moved, demolished or changed.
(1977 Code §
4-2-1)
8-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Forms: Application shall be made in writing, on forms provided by the
Building and Zoning Officer, and signed by the owner or authorized agent. (1977
Code §
4-2-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Contents Of Application: The following information shall accompany and
be part of the application:
      1.   Description: Descriptive material, in drawn and written form, as to
location and design of buildings, structures, topographical and site grading
plan, driveways, water supply systems, sewage disposal system, plumbing and
electrical installations, as required by the Building and Zoning Officer,
Village Health Officer and Village Engineer to assure compliance with the rules
and regulations of this title, the provisions of the building code, and any
other provisions of the Village code.
      2.   Plat Of Survey:
         a.   For new construction, one copy of a plat of survey of the subject
property shall be prepared and certified by a licensed Illinois land surveyor
in accordance with section 1270.56 minimum standards of practice of the
Illinois professional land surveyor act of 1989, latest edition. This shall
include identifying and labeling dimensions of and to existing improvements on
the subject property.
         b.   For building additions or expansions, one copy of a plat of
survey of the subject property shall be prepared and certified by a licensed
land surveyor in accordance with section 1270.56 minimum standards of practice
of the Illinois professional land surveyor act of 1989, latest edition. This
shall include identifying and labeling dimensions of and to existing
improvements on the subject property. When determined by the Building and
Zoning Officer that such a plat of survey is not essential to accurately
ascertain compliance with all zoning regulations of the Village based on visual
observation or other available information, this requirement may be waived by
the Building and Zoning Officer.
      3.   Site Plan:
         a.   Five (5) copies of a site plan drawn to scale in accordance with
an accurate plat of survey shall be provided. Site plan shall show all existing
and proposed buildings and structures, topography, driveways, water supply
systems, sewage disposal systems, stormwater management measures, soil and
erosion control measures, etc., as required by the Village Building and Zoning
Officer, Village Health Officer and Village Engineer to assure compliance with
the applicable Village codes and ordinances.
         b.   Site plan shall be prepared, signed, sealed and certified by an
Illinois licensed professional engineer.
         c.   When determined by the Village Building and Zoning Officer,
Village Health Officer or Village Engineer that a site plan is not essential to
assure compliance with the applicable codes and ordinances, this requirement
may be waived.
         d.   The base plan which includes existing topographic information,
physical features and other information shall be computer generated to enhance
accuracy. An electronic copy and four (4) prints shall be provided upon request
of the Village.
      4.   Construction Plans And Specifications:
         a.   Three (3) copies of construction plans drawn to scale and
specifications shall be provided. Plans shall be of sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and shall show and describe
in detail that it will conform to the provisions of the applicable codes and
ordinances.
         b.   Construction plans shall be prepared, signed, sealed and
certified by an Illinois licensed architect or structural engineer.
         c.   Plans may be waived for minor alterations not involving
structural changes and for residential accessory buildings or structures not
over one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area, if sufficiently described in
the application for permit. (Ord. 1200, 2-23-2011)
   C.   Fees: Fees shall be submitted with the application in accordance with
the provisions of section
8-3-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Changes:
      1.   The permit may be amended during the course of work.
      2.   Alterations and additions after completion require another permit.
(1977 Code §
4-2-2)
   E.   Waiver Of Protection Of Copyright Laws: Any architect, engineer,
draftsman or other person who, on or after May 1, 2016, files or delivers
plans, drawings or specifications in support of an application for a village
permit for any construction or remodeling, or delivers such plans, drawings and
specifications to any person who files the same for such village permit, is
deemed to have irrevocably agreed that the village of North Barrington may copy
and deliver copies of such plans, drawings and specifications to the then owner
or any future owner of such property, and such architect, engineer or draftsman
is deemed to have waived any and all claims for statutory or common law
copyright protections as to such delivery by the village to any such owner.
Upon request and upon payment of the appropriate fee imposed by the village, if
any, the then current owner from time to time, or any prior owner, of any real
estate in the village shall be entitled to review and to secure a copy of, all
plans, drawings and specifications filed with the village on or after May 1,
2016, relating to any construction or improvements on said real estate,
notwithstanding any statement or claim on or associated with such plans,
drawings and specifications that such plans, drawings and specifications are
protected against copying and disclosure by the copyright laws of the United
States or any state thereof, whether based upon any statute or common law.
(Ord. 1282, 3-30-2016)
8-3-3: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Denial Of Permit: The permit shall be denied if the plans or proposed
work does not conform to the requirements of the building code, any provisions
of this code or any other laws and ordinances of the village. Denial with
reasons shall be given in writing upon request. (1977 Code § 4-2-3)
   B.   Issuance Of Permit; Conditions:
      1.   Issuance: If the proposed work conforms to the requirements of the
building code and all other requirements of this code and other applicable
ordinances, a permit shall be issued in writing to proceed with work, with one
set of plans and specifications, endorsed by the Building and Zoning Officer,
to be kept on the job at all times. (1977 Code § 4-2-3; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Conditions Of Issuance: No building permit shall be issued until a
septic system permit has been issued for a required septic system for the
specific site for which a building permit is being sought. (1977 Code §
4-2-1; amd. 2004 Code)
8-3-4: PERMIT TO BE POSTED:
The permit placard is to be furnished with the permit or as the permit itself,
which is to remain conspicuously posted on the premises during the course of
work. (1977 Code § 4-2-3)
8-3-5: FEE SCHEDULE 1 :
Unless otherwise provided in this code, the following schedules of fees shall
be in effect in the village for building permits:
   A.   Value Of Improvement; Fee: For all construction including, but not
limited to, new construction or installations, additions, alterations and/or
repairs:
Value Of Improvement Building Permit Fee
Value Of Improvement         Building Permit Fee
$0.00 to $9,999.00           $ 150.00
$10,000.00 to $14,999.00     200.00
$15,000.00 to $19,999.00     300.00
$20,000.00 to $24,999.00     400.00
$25,000.00 to $29,999.00     500.00
$30,000.00 to $34,999.00     600.00
$35,000.00 to $39,999.00     650.00
$40,000.00 to $49,999.00     700.00
$50,000.00 to $59,999.00     750.00
$60,000.00 to $69,999.00     800.00
$70,000.00 to $79,999.00     850.00
$80,000.00 to $89,999.00     900.00
$90,000.00 to $100,000.00    1,000.00
$100,000.01 to $1,500,000.00 $1,000.00 plus $10.00 per $1,000.00 valuation
                             between $100,000.00 and $1,500,000.00
Over $1,500,000.00           $15,000.00 plus $2.50 per $1,000.00 valuation
 
(1977 Code § 4-2-4; amd. 2004 Code)
The applicant for the building permit shall submit an estimate of the value of
the improvement. In no event shall the estimated value of construction for new
residential construction be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the
first and second floors and twenty dollars ($20.00) per square foot for
finished basements. Garages and outbuildings which are part of the new
residential construction shall not be subject to the one hundred dollar
($100.00) per square foot minimum.
   B.   Nonresidential Plan Review Fees: In addition to the building permit
fees as provided in subsection A of this section, the permit applicant for
nonresidential buildings and structures shall pay the actual costs and expenses
incurred by the Village for the review of plans and specifications which are
performed by a third party plan review agency.
   C.   Septic Systems: Fees shall be as provided in subsection 4-5-3E of this
code.
   D.   Application Fee: Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for new single-family
or nonresidential construction permits and fifty dollars ($50.00) for all other
permits. Application fee is nonrefundable and shall be paid at the time of
filing a permit application and shall be applied to the building permit. (2004
Code)
   E.   Charges For Construction Without A Permit: In addition to all fees
otherwise provided for herein, if any person starts construction, or allows the
start of construction, of any structure or improvement for which a permit is
required, without securing such permit, there shall be assessed a charge in the
amount of double the amount of the required permit fee, in addition to the
regular permit fee; provided, however, if it shall be determined that any part
of such construction without a permit occurred after notice that a permit is
required, a fine shall be assessed in an amount not to exceed seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) per day for each day of construction without a permit,
and in addition thereto, the cost of the Village's inspection and enforcement
expense. (Ord. 1217, 1-25-2012)
   F.   Abandoned Or Withdrawn Permit Applications: If a building permit is not
secured within six (6) months from the date of submission, it shall be deemed
to have been abandoned. If the permit application is withdrawn or abandoned
after the Village has initiated the permit review and approval process, the
permit applicant shall provide reimbursement to the Village for all reasonable
charges invoiced to the Village by outside consultants in connection with the
review of the plans and specifications in excess of the amounts previously
deposited. (2004 Code)
   G.   Elevator Inspection Fee: Seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each
required inspection of an elevator. (1977 Code § 4-2-4; amd. 2004 Code)
   H.   Fire Department Plan Review And Inspection Fees:
      1.   Application Of Provisions: This subsection applies only in the event
that a sprinkler system, fire alarm system or other fire suppression device is
to be incorporated into any structure.
      2.   Payment Of Fees Required: A permit to begin work for new
construction, alterations, replacement, or other building construction shall
not be issued until the fees prescribed in this subsection shall have been paid
to the Fire Department which administers the programs for the fire protection
district in which the property is located. Nor shall any amendment to a permit
necessitating an additional fee be approved until the additional fee shall have
been paid.
      3.   Fire Department Fees: To provide for services provided by the Fire
Department for the fire protection district in which the property is located,
the following Fire Department fees shall be collected from a permit applicant
and remitted upon invoice to the applicable fire protection district: Fire
Department plan review fees and, in addition, construction inspection fees.
      4.   Fire Department Plan Review Fees: At the time of filing an
application for a building permit (or in conjunction with paying the building
permit fee), the applicant shall pay a Fire Department plan review fee in
accordance with the following schedule:
REVIEW FEE SCHEDULE
 
Fire alarm systems                      $100.00, plus $5.00 per initiating and
                                        signaling device
Site plan                               $150.00
Sprinkler systems (except for single-   $100.00, plus $3.00 per sprinkler head
family 13D systems)
Sprinkler systems for single-family 13D $100.00
systems
Other fire suppression system           $150.00
 
      5.   Extraordinary Review Fees: In addition to the plan review fees
listed in subsection H4 of this section, the applicant shall pay, prior to the
issuance of any permit, the actual costs and expenses incurred by the Village
or applicable fire protection district for extraordinary reviews of plans or
specifications beyond the review customarily involved in the usual course of
such plan reviews. Such costs and expenses shall include actual review fees by
consultants or outside contractors or time spent by Village staff, consultants
or the applicable fire protection district. Such time shall be billed at the
rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour for each person.
      6.   Fire Department Construction Inspection Fees: At the time of permit
approval, prior to release of the building permit, the permit applicant shall
pay a Fire Department construction fee in accordance with the following
schedule:
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONSTRUCTION FEE SCHEDULE
Single-family residential:  
Single-family residential:             
 Sprinkler system for single- family $100.00
  13D system
Multi-family residential:              
 Fire alarm system                   $75.00, plus $5.00 per initiating and
                                      signaling device
 Sprinkler system                    $125.00, plus $3.00 per head
Commercial/industrial:                 
 Fire alarm system                   $200.00, plus $5.00 per initiating and
                                      signaling device
 Sprinkler system                    $125.00, plus $3.00 per head
 Other fire suppression              $150.00
Build outs:                            
 Fire alarm system                   $75.00, plus $5.00 per initiating and
                                      signaling device
 Sprinkler system                    $125.00, plus $3.00 per head
 Other fire suppression              $150.00
 
      7.   Conflicting Provisions: To the extent that the provisions of this
subsection conflict with or are inconsistent with the provisions of any other
Village code provisions, ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this
subsection shall apply and control. (Ord. 898, 7-22-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-8-7 of this code for road fee and deposit requirements upon
  issuance of a building permit.
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Certificate Of Occupancy
8-4-2: Maximum Building Height
8-4-3: Basements
8-4-4: Minimum Space Requirements For Residential Buildings
8-4-5: Grading; Removal Of Debris
8-4-6: Nonconforming Structures
8-4-7: Hours Of Construction
8-4-8: Foundation "Spot" Survey And Record Drawing
8-4-1: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: A certificate of occupancy must be secured before
a building is occupied by persons sleeping or cooking therein. (1977 Code § 4-
3-7)
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate; Temporary Permit: If, as a result of
appropriate inspection, the Building and Zoning Officer determines that all
construction has been completed in compliance with the building permit, all
provisions of this title and any applicable provisions of this code and other
Village ordinances, the Building and Zoning Officer shall issue to the owner a
certificate of occupancy. At the discretion of the Building and Zoning Officer,
a temporary occupancy permit may be issued for a specific period of time not to
exceed six (6) months and a bond, if appropriate, required. (1977 Code § 4-3-7;
amd. 2004 Code)
8-4-2: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
The provisions of the Village zoning regulations, relative to height
limitations, are hereby incorporated by reference as fully as if set forth
herein. (1977 Code § 4-3-8)
8-4-3: BASEMENTS:
Basements, habitable or nonhabitable, with areas fifty percent (50%) or more
below finished grade shall have a minimum of one stairway plus one escape type
window. (1977 Code § 4-3-4; amd. 2004 Code)
8-4-4: MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS:
The following are the minimum space requirements for residential units
applicable to all buildings and structures and portions thereof used for
single-family residences:
   A.   Floor Areas: Required floor areas measured at main or first floor and
not including open porches, breezeway, garage or carports:
 
                     One-Story Residence In Two-Story Residence In Square
                      Square Feet            Feet
                                            
R-1 district          1,800                  1,800
R-2 and R-3 districts 1,500                  1,700
 
   B.   Room Areas: Areas of the following rooms:
 
Living, dining and cooking when in 1 room 500 square feet
(includes area occupied by equipment)
Living and dining, when in 1 room         300 square feet
Kitchen, cooking only (including area     100 square feet
occupied by equipment)
Major bedroom                             140 square feet
Living room only                          250 square feet
 
   C.   Utility Room:
      1.   Utility room shall be required in basementless dwellings.
      2.   A combination kitchen and utility room may be approved with a
minimum area of one hundred eighty (180) square feet, provided the heating unit
be installed in a closet constructed of one hour fire resistant material, with
sufficient clearance for maintenance and repairs and with adequate ventilation
facilities.
   D.   Additional Rooms: Additional habitable rooms require a minimum floor
area of one hundred (100) square feet each. (1977 Code § 4-3-3)
8-4-5: GRADING; REMOVAL OF DEBRIS:
   A.   Grading:
      1.   Grading shall be to contours shown on drawings approved by the
Village. (1977 Code § 4-3-5; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Grading, whether heretofore or hereafter performed, shall not
unreasonably interfere with drainage on the lot or tract being graded or any
other lot or tract.
   B.   Removal Of Debris Required: All building debris and residue shall be
removed. (1977 Code § 4-3-5)
8-4-6: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Definition: A "nonconforming building or structure" is an existing
building or structure or part or appurtenance thereof not in conformance with
this title or the zoning ordinance of the Village.
   B.   Repairs; Permit Required: Repair work requires a written application
and permit. Work shall be limited to necessary repairs or nonstructural work
only unless the building or part is made to conform in whole or part with the
requirements of this title or the zoning ordinance of the Village. (1977 Code §
4-3-1)
   C.   Alterations Or Enlargements: Altering or enlarging shall be done only
pursuant to and in conformance with the provisions of subsections 10-1-2B and
10-4-2A1b of the Village zoning regulations. (1977 Code §
4-3-1; amd. 2004 Code)
8-4-7: HOURS OF CONSTRUCTION:
Construction activities of any building or structure and repairs thereto shall
be only during the following hours, except in the case of a bona fide
emergency:
Mondays through Fridays (except national holidays) between seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Saturdays between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Sundays and national holidays between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. (Ord. 801, 5-24-1999; amd. 2004 Code)
8-4-8: FOUNDATION "SPOT" SURVEY AND RECORD DRAWING:
   A.   A foundation "spot" survey is required for all new construction and
additions upon completion of the construction of the concrete foundation and
prior to the continuance of building construction activities. The building
officer may waive the requirement for the "spot" survey for minor construction
projects (such as small additions). Three (3) signed and sealed prints of the
top of foundation survey shall be submitted to the Village, as well as an
electronic copy of the survey in AutoCAD format, as approved by the Village
Engineer. The top of foundation survey shall be at a scale of no smaller than
one inch equal to thirty feet (1" = 30') and shall conform to state standards
including, but not limited to, the following requirements:
      1.   Legal description of the property.
      2.   Boundary lines: bearings and distances.
      3.   Exact location of the structure in relation to the lot lines.
      4.   Dimensions of the perimeter of the foundation and dimensions from
the foundation to the building lines.
      5.   Bench mark information. The drawing shall be referenced to the
Illinois state plane coordinate system and NAVD88 datum.
      6.   Elevation of the top of foundation (include any steps in the
foundation and the elevation of openings in the foundation).
      7.   Building setback lines.
      8.   Easements: location, width and description.
      9.   Stamp and signature of an Illinois registered land surveyor.
   B.   A record drawing reflecting all as built construction is required for
all new construction upon completion and prior to issuance of the certificate
of occupancy. The Building Officer may waive all or some of the requirements
for the record drawing for minor construction projects (such as small
additions). Three (3) signed and sealed prints of the record drawing shall be
submitted to the Village, as well as an electronic copy of the survey in
AutoCAD format. The record drawing shall be at a scale of no smaller than one
inch equal to thirty feet (1" = 30') and include the requirements set forth
below:
      1.   Legal description of the property.
      2.   Builder's name, unit number, lot number and street address.
      3.   Bench mark information. The electronic drawing shall be referenced
to the Illinois State plane coordinate system and NGS NAVD88 datum.
      4.   North arrow.
      5.   Elevation of the top of foundation (include top of foundation of the
walkout and/or lookout conditions).
      6.   Garage elevation at opening of garage. T/slab at OHD.
      7.   Existing elevations at lot corners and drainage arrows.
      8.   Existing finished grade at the corners of the building.
      9.   Existing elevation of all drainage breakpoints and drainage swales.
      10.   Existing top of wall and bottom of wall elevations for all
retaining walls.
      11.   As built contours for the lot. Contours should extend ten feet
(10') onto the neighboring properties.
      12.   Existing location and elevations of structures (including rim
elevation, invert elevation and direction, size and slope of utility pipes,
etc.), if applicable.
      13.   Location, type, size and elevations for sanitary and water service
lines, if applicable.
      14.   Location of water service buffalo type valve box (B-box), if
applicable.
      15.   Location of sanitary and storm sewer cleanouts, if applicable.
      16.   Well location, if applicable.
      17.   Individual sewage disposal system information, including tanks and
wastewater disposal field location, if applicable.
      18.   Location, material, diameter, and invert elevations for driveway
culvert(s). (Ord. 1200, 2-23-2011)
      19.   Downspout locations. Effective April 1, 2018, downspouts from newly
constructed buildings shall be discharged at grade. Downspouts shall be
directed away from foundations and septic fields and shall terminate at least
twenty five feet (25') from any property line. The end of the downspout
collection system shall be provided with an erosion control devise (such as a
splash block or lined apron). Each downspout shall be provided with an air gap
and the air gap detail shall be provided on the site plan. All downspout
collection systems shall be constructed with solid PVC pipe which shall be
sized for the amount of roof area being discharged to that system with such
sizing approved by the Village Health Officer or Village Engineer. The Village
Health Officer or Village Engineer may, in their sole discretion, make
exceptions or alterations to any and all requirements of this subsection for an
individual location, to the extent that the exception or alteration avoids a
commercial impracticability and otherwise does not pose a risk to the health,
safety, and welfare of persons or property in the Village. (Ord. 1319, 3-21-
2018)
      20.   Sump pump and sump pit locations. Sump pump discharges are required
to comply with section
4-6-1 of this Code.
      21.   Location of any additional accessory, detached building, or
swimming pool (including dimensions to the property line).
      22.   Existing easements.
      23.   Normal and high water levels of adjacent water bodies.
      24.   Floodplain base flood elevation, including the source and date of
the base flood elevation.
      25.   Wetland boundary and buffer, including the delineator and
delineation date.
      26.   Stamp and signature of an Illinois registered land surveyor or a
registered professional engineer.
      27.   The statement "The final grading of the lot has been completed and
substantially complies with the approved engineering plans for the lot". In the
event that the final grading of the lot differs from the approved plans, a
statement must be made as to the nature of the change. The Village Engineer may
approve minor changes discovered during this record drawing preparation,
providing that the changes do not adversely affect the drainage on the land in
question or other lands. (Ord. 1200, 2-23-2011)
CHAPTER 5
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Structural Design
8-5-2: Fences And Barriers
8-5-3: Drainage Systems
8-5-1: STRUCTURAL DESIGN:
The pool structure shall be engineered and designed to withstand the expected
force to which it will be subjected and to keep the level of the water in the
pool no higher than three inches (3") above the lowest point on any of the
ground within three feet (3') of any edge of the pool. (1977 Code §
4-5-3; amd. 2004 Code)
8-5-2: FENCES AND BARRIERS:
   A.   Every person owning land on which there is situated a swimming pool
that contains water over twelve inches (12") deep at any point, shall erect and
maintain thereon a fence or other barrier to provide protection against
potential drowning by restraining access to the swimming pool. Said barrier
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with section
10-11-3 of the Village zoning regulations as amended from time to time, and
appendix G of the international residential code as amended from time to time.
A pool cover shall not qualify as a barrier which is required by this section.
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the zoning ordinance and
said appendix G, the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall govern.
   B.   Swimming pools which are in existence on August 1, 2005, which do not
meet or conform to the barrier requirements of this section shall be brought
into compliance not later than June 1, 2006.
   C.   Kiddie pools (any contained body of water with a maximum depth of 12
inches) need not be protected by a barrier, but when containing water must be
attended by a responsible person. Such kiddie pools must be emptied on a daily
basis, for purposes of health and safety.
   D.   It is the responsibility of the property owner and any other person in
responsible charge of a swimming pool to ensure that the required pool
enclosure, including all gates, doors, locks, latches and other portions of the
barrier, are maintained in a safe manner and in good working order at all
times. (Ord. 1065, 7-25-2005)
   E.   All petitions for variations from the fencing requirements of this
section shall be referred to the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village, which
shall conduct a hearing thereon at any regular or special meeting of the Zoning
Board of Appeals without any requirement of published newspaper notice,
provided that the applicant for such variation shall have delivered to the
Village Clerk, not less than fourteen (14) days before the date of such
meeting, notices of the time and date of the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting
and the nature of such variation request, with envelopes stamped with first
class postage addressed to the current real estate taxpayer of record of all
adjoining properties and the Village Clerk shall have mailed such notices not
less than ten (10) days prior to the date of such meeting. A decision by the
Zoning Board of Appeals to grant such requested variation shall be final. If
the Zoning Board of Appeals denies such requested variation, the petitioner may
file an appeal to the corporate authorities within sixty (60) days after such
denial. (Ord. 1099, 7-26-2006)
8-5-3: DRAINAGE SYSTEMS:
The swimming pool and equipment shall be equipped to be emptied completely of
water, and the discharged water shall be disposed of in an approved manner that
will not create a nuisance to adjoining property or damage or erode Village
roads and drainage ditches. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF VACANT STRUCTURES AND PROPERTIES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definitions
8-6-2: Enforcement Authority
8-6-3: Responsible Parties; Liens
8-6-4: Obligations Of Owners Of Vacant Structures
8-6-5: Vacant Structure Registration Certificate
8-6-6: Vacant Structure Maintenance Standards
8-6-7: Required Liability Insurance
8-6-8: Affixing Contact/Emergency Information To Vacant Property
8-6-9: Enforcement And Penalties
8-6-10: Request For Waiver
8-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings set forth below:
OWNER: Every person, entity or service company who alone or jointly or
separately with others:
A. Has the legal or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling unit, building,
land or structure; or
B. Has care, charge, or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit, building, land
or structure in any capacity, including, but not limited to, executor,
administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the holder of legal title;
or
C. Is a mortgagee under the terms of a mortgage, where the mortgagor is no
longer taking responsibility for the property, and where the mortgage in
question contains a provision authorizing the mortgagee to act to secure or
repair the property; or
D. Is a mortgagee in possession of any such property; or
E. Is a mortgagee that has instituted foreclosure proceedings against the
mortgagor; or
F. Is a trustee or other person appointed by a court invested with possession
or control of any such property.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Includes an owner, tenant, occupier, property manager,
lessee or agent.
STATEMENT OF INTENT: A form completed by the "owner", as defined, of a vacant
structure, or the responsible party, which contains specific information
regarding the structure and the owner's plans for rehabilitation, maintenance,
demolition and/or removal.
STRUCTURE: Any physical object or edifice that is built or installed and is
located on and affixed to the land. The term "structure" shall include any part
of a structure.
SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION: Any rehabilitation, the cost of which exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the existing structure.
VACANT: A structure that is:
A. Lacking the habitual presence of human beings, who have a legal right to be
on the premises for ninety (90) consecutive days; or
B. One at which substantially all lawful business or construction activity or
residential occupancy has ceased; or
C. One which is substantially devoid of contents.
For the purposes of this chapter, the Building and Zoning Officer of the
Village may, in specific instances, except from the definition of vacant
properties those that are actively listed for sale and those properties which
are under active, ongoing rehabilitation or reconstruction and have a building
permit from the Village.
VACANT STRUCTURE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS: The maintenance standards to which the
vacant structures are subject under this chapter, are set forth in the Village
of North Barrington building and zoning code and ordinances, as amended from
time to time.
VACANT STRUCTURE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE: A document issued by the Village for
structures meeting the definition of "vacant structure". (Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
8-6-2: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The Village Building and Zoning Officer is authorized to administer and enforce
the provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, maintaining
lists setting forth the status of vacant structures. The Building and Zoning
Officer may delegate his/her powers and duties to an appropriate designee or
inspector. (Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
8-6-3: RESPONSIBLE PARTIES; LIENS:
Every responsible party with respect to any vacant property, shall be jointly
and severally liable with every other responsible party for the obligations set
forth in this chapter. Reference to an owner in this chapter shall include all
responsible parties. All fees, costs and charges assessed or incurred by the
Village shall constitute a lien on the real estate upon which such vacant
structure is situated. (Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
8-6-4: OBLIGATIONS OF OWNERS OF VACANT STRUCTURES:
   A.   Within fourteen (14) days after a structure becomes "vacant", as
defined herein, the owner of the structure shall apply for a vacant structure
registration certificate and pay a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00). It
shall be the responsibility of the registered owner to file an amended
registration and pay a new registration fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
within fourteen (14) days after any changes of the information contained in the
initial application, including occupancy or transfer. During the period of
registration, the owner shall provide access to the Village to conduct
inspections of the structure, both interior and exterior if deemed necessary by
the Village, and, following reasonable notice, to determine compliance with
this chapter and any other relevant codes and ordinances of the Village. (Ord.
1203, 4-20-2011)
   B.   The owner of a vacant structure shall comply with all regulations of
the Village. To this end, the owner shall apply for all building and zoning
permits necessary to bring the structure into compliance within fourteen (14)
days of obtaining a vacant structure registration certificate.
   C.   The owner of a vacant structure shall, within fourteen (14) days after
receipt of the vacant structure registration certificate, complete the removal
of all:
      1.   Combustible materials from the structure in compliance with the
applicable fire prevention regulations;
      2.   Waste, rubbish or debris from the interior of the structure; and
      3.   Waste, rubbish, debris or excess vegetation including grass in
excess of eight inches (8") from the yards surrounding the vacant structure in
accordance with the Village code.
   D.   The owner of a vacant structure shall immediately lock, barricade or
secure all doors, windows and other openings in the structure to prevent entry
by unauthorized persons, in accordance with the vacant structure maintenance
standards of this chapter. The owner shall, as needed, provide additional
security in the event of increased danger to human life or the public welfare,
as determined by the Village.
   E.   The obligations of the owner of a vacant structure are continuing
obligations which are effective throughout the time of the vacancy as that term
is defined in this chapter. (Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
8-6-5: VACANT STRUCTURE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Application by the owner of a vacant structure for a vacant structure
registration certificate shall be made on a form provided by the Building and
Zoning Officer. The application shall include a "statement of intent" which
will set forth information as to:
      1.   The expected period of vacancy (including the date of initial
vacancy);
      2.   The plan for regular maintenance during the vacancy to comply with
the vacant structure maintenance standards of this subsection and all of the
applicable property maintenance, building and zoning codes of the Village;
      3.   A plan and time line for the lawful occupancy, rehabilitation,
removal or demolition of the structure;
      4.   Measures to be taken to ensure that the structure will be kept
weathertight and secure from trespassers and that it will be safe for entry by
Police Officers, firefighters and Code or Building Inspectors in time of
exigent circumstances or emergency as well as at times of other inspections;
      5.   Measures to be taken to assure that the premises remain free from
nuisance conditions and in good order in conformance with the vacant structure
maintenance standards; and
      6.   A list of all persons authorized to be present in the structure and
provide notices of trespass to the Police authorizing the arrest for trespass
of individuals not on the list. The owner shall update the authorized person
list as needed. (Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
8-6-6: VACANT STRUCTURE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
A vacant structure shall be subject to the maintenance standards as set forth
in the applicable provisions of the building and zoning codes of the Village.
(Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
8-6-7: REQUIRED LIABILITY INSURANCE:
It shall be the responsibility of the owner or owner's agent to maintain
liability insurance on all vacant and registered structures under their
control. Proof of evidence of such insurance shall be filed with the Village.
Minimum insurance amounts shall be one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). (Ord.
1299, 4-27-2017)
8-6-8: AFFIXING CONTACT/EMERGENCY INFORMATION TO VACANT PROPERTY:
The owner or owner's agent shall affix to the vacant structure a copy of the
vacant structure registration certificate in a front window so that it is able
to be read by law enforcement or Village personnel as needed. (Ord. 1201, 3-23-
2011)
8-6-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Each day that said violation continues shall be considered a new and separate
violation. Prosecution under this section is a remedy cumulative to any and all
other remedies at law and equity, including, but not limited to, the Village's
remedies under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-15.
   B.   All fees, costs or charges assessed or incurred by the Village pursuant
to this chapter shall be a lien upon the real property. The lien shall be
superior to all other liens and encumbrances except real estate taxes. The
Village Building and Zoning Officer shall file a notice of lien, within one (1)
year after such cost and expense is incurred, in the Office of the Lake County
Recorder. The lien may be enforced by proceeding to foreclose, as in case of
mortgages or mechanic's liens. (Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
8-6-10: REQUEST FOR WAIVER:
   A.   Any owner of a vacant residential property of one (1) to three (3)
units, who is a natural person with insufficient income or resources to fulfill
all of the obligations imposed herein, may petition the Village Building and
Zoning Officer for a waiver of the registration fee, a reduction of the minimum
amount of liability insurance, and/or a waiver of some or all of the property
rehabilitation requirements (hereinafter "financial requirements") under this
chapter for a period of time not to exceed twelve (12) months. Application for
a waiver of financial requirements shall be in writing on forms provided by the
Village. The decision of the Village Building and Zoning Officer, to be made
within fourteen (14) days after receiving the petition, shall be made in
writing and forthwith shall be mailed or delivered to the petitioner. An appeal
of the decision may be made to the Village President, in writing, within
fourteen (14) days of the mailing or delivery of the decision. Individuals who
are granted a twelve (12) month waiver under this section remain obligated to
keep the registered property secure and safe, and the exterior property areas
free from debris, with grass regularly mowed.
   B.   A request for a waiver from the other provisions of this chapter for
good cause as set forth in the waiver request, shall be made by the owner to
the President and Board of Trustees, in writing and submitted to the Village
Clerk. The waiver request shall be heard at a meeting of the corporate
authorities within thirty (30) days of receipt by the Village Clerk and the
decision of the Village Board shall be in writing and mailed or delivered to
the petitioner. (Ord. 1201, 3-23-2011)
TITLE 9
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Rules Of Word Construction; Definitions
9-1-2: Interpretation Of Provisions
9-1-3: Compliance With Comprehensive Plan
9-1-4: Plats Required; Prohibitions
9-1-5: Further Subdivision; Consideration If Part Of Larger Unit
9-1-6: Permit Requirements
9-1-7: Record Drawings
9-1-8: Costs And Expenses To Subdivider
9-1-9: Dedications Of Land
9-1-10: Erosion And Sedimentation Control
9-1-11: Variations
9-1-12: Culvert Materials
9-1-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS:
In the interpretation of this title, the definitions contained in this section
shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates
otherwise. Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular. The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may"
is permissive. The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece", and
"parcel". The phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "intended for", "maintained for" and "occupied for".
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation delineating the level of flooding
resulting from the 100-year flood frequency elevation.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines or shorelines
of waterways, or corporate boundary lines of the Village.
BUILDING: Any structure designed, built, or intended for the shelter, enclosure
or protection of persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
BUILDING INTERIOR: Any portion of the interior of a principal building.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so
designated on the plats of the proposed subdivision, between which line and the
adjacent boundary of the street upon which the lot abuts the erection of a
building is prohibited.
CROSSWALK: A public right of way located across a block to provide pedestrian
access to adjacent streets or areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one open end and being permanently terminated
by a vehicle turnaround.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
FLOODPLAIN (REGULATORY): "Floodplains" may be either riverine or nonriverine
depressional areas. "Riverine floodplains" are those areas contiguous to a
lake, pond, or stream whose elevation is greater than the normal water pool
elevation but equal to or lower than the projected 100-year flood elevation.
"Nonriverine floodplains" are depressional storage areas not associated with a
stream system to which surrounding lands drain causing periodic inundation by
storm waters. In certain cases, the "floodplain" may also be known as the
special flood hazard area (SFHA). A "regulatory floodplain" exists along any
watercourse draining one hundred (100) acres or more, or any nonriverine areas
with a surface area greater than one-fourth (1/4) acre, for the 100-year event.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Health Officer as provided for in title 1, chapter 7,
article G of this code, the consulting engineer for health and sanitation
matters as appointed by the Village President and confirmed by the Board of
Trustees or any engineer or other person as directed by the Village President
or the Board of Trustees. Any appointee may be an individual, partnership,
corporation or other entity.
HIGHWAY: A right of way for vehicular traffic, which traverses a nonurban area,
usually a state numbered or federal numbered route.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for transfer
of ownership or for building development.
PARKWAY: A route intended to be used primarily by passenger vehicles and whose
right of way is or is intended to be developed in a park like character.
PERSON: Includes an individual, trustee, corporation, partnership or other
entity.
PLAN COMMISSION: Refers to the Plan Commission of the Village of North
Barrington, Illinois.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A tract of land or any single lot or
combination of lots which is developed as a unit under single ownership or
control, pursuant to the definitions and regulations of the Village zoning
ordinance, as adopted and amended.
PLAT: A plan, map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivider's plan for the
subdivision of land is presented and which he submits for approval and intends
to record in final form.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawings and documents presented for final approval and for
recording.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The drawings and documents presented for conditional
approval.
ROADWAY: The paved area within a street right of way intended for vehicular
traffic.
STREAM: Any continuously flowing natural watercourse.
STREET: An area, which primarily serves or is intended to serve as a vehicular
and pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets. The word "street"
refers to the entire right of way or easements, whether public or private, and
not merely to the roadway or paving or other improvement within the street
right of way.
STREET, APPROVED: Any street, whether public or private, meeting standards and
specifications of the Village of North Barrington.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street for interurban continuity or regional importance
that provides reasonably continuous routes through this whole or major portion
of the Village.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street, which conveys traffic from minor streets to state
or county highways or to other collector streets.
STREET, MINOR: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
STREET, PRIMARY: Any primary or secondary thoroughfare or minor street, which
has been dedicated for public use by a recorded subdivision plat or other
document of dedication.
STREET, PRIVATE: Any street which is under the jurisdiction of a person or any
street which is privately owned or established.
SUBDIVIDER (DEVELOPER): Any individuals, firms, associations, syndicates,
corporations, copartnerships, trusts or other legal entities commencing
proceedings under this title to effect a subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION: Includes resubdivision and where it is appropriate to the context,
relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided. For the
purpose of these regulations, a subdivision of land is or includes:
A. The division of land into two (2) or more lots, sites, or parcels for the
purpose of transfer of ownership or building development; provided, however,
that a subdivision of land, in parcels of more than five (5) acres, not
involving any new street or easement of access, shall be exempted;
B. The establishment or dedication of a public or private road, expressway,
street, or alley through a tract of land;
C. The resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots, sites, or
parcels;
D. The design for any planned shopping or business center; or
E. The design for a planned development.
USGS: United States geological survey, department of the interior.
VILLAGE BOARD, BOARD OR BOARD OF TRUSTEES, OR CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: Refer
collectively to the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of North
Barrington, Illinois.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The designated professional engineer licensed by the state of
Illinois.
WATER SUPPLY, PUBLIC: A water system consisting of wells, distribution pipes,
service lines, and other facilities (i.e., treatment plants, pump stations,
hydrants, etc.) which provides potable water and, in some cases, provides fire
protection to paying customers. Said system could be either publicly or
privately owned. (1977 Code §
11-2-1; amd. 2004 Code)
9-1-2: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: Where the conditions imposed by any provisions
of this title upon the use of land are either more restrictive or less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this
title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This title is not intended to
abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement; provided, that
where the regulations of this title are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or requirements than such easements, covenants, or other private
agreements, the requirements of this title shall govern. (1977 Code § 11-1-8;
amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Planned Unit Developments (PUD): In the case of any PUD, the Plan
Commission may recommend and the Village Board may by ordinance authorize
exceptions and variations of the applicable size of residential sites or lots
within the boundaries of a PUD as provided in the zoning ordinance of the
Village, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 1113, 4-25-2007)
   E.   Validity: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or
portion of this title is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions thereof. (1977 Code § 11-1-8; amd. 2004
Code)
9-1-3: COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN 1 :
No map or plat of any subdivision presented for record affecting lands within
the corporate limits or any contiguous territory outside of and distant not
more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate limits of the
Village shall be approved by the Village Board or be entitled to record or
shall be valid unless such subdivision substantially complies with the official
comprehensive plan and is approved by the Plan Commission and Village Board.
(Ord. 1185, 3-31-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 9-4-1A of this title.
9-1-4: PLATS REQUIRED; PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Plats Required: Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be
laid out within the incorporated limits of the Village or within contiguous
territory not more than one and one- half (11/2) miles beyond the incorporated
boundary of the Village, the subdivider thereof or his agent shall submit both
a preliminary and a final subdivision plat, and all procedures relating thereto
shall, in all respects, be in full compliance with these regulations. (1977
Code §
11-1-1)
   B.   Prohibitions: Until plats and plans for the subdivision are approved:
      1.   No land shall be subdivided, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the natural land.
      2.   No lot, tract, or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be made or
given.
      3.   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service,
lighting, grading, paving or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made by
any owner or his agent, or by any public service corporation at the request of
such owner or his agent.
      4.   No trees shall be removed. (1977 Code § 11-1-7; amd. 2004 Code)
9-1-5: FURTHER SUBDIVISION; CONSIDERATION IF PART OF LARGER UNIT:
Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a larger, logical
subdivision unit in relation to the Village as a whole, the Plan Commission
may, before approval, cause to be prepared a plan for the entire area or
neighborhood, such plan to be used by the Plan Commission as an aid in judging
the proposed plat. The Village Engineer shall cooperate with the Plan
Commission in the preparation of this plan and shall furnish such surveys and
data as may be necessary. (1977 Code §
11-1-3)
9-1-6: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building And Development Permits: No building permit providing for the
improvement of any lot in any subdivision shall be issued until there has been
filed with the Building and Zoning Officer a certified copy of the plat of
subdivision as recorded or registered in the office of the recorder of deeds or
registrar of titles, as the case may be. Nor shall a building permit be issued
for the improvement of any lot until the plans and specifications for the
public improvements have been approved by and filed with the President and
Board of Trustees and until cash or surety bond as provided by ordinance are
posted with the Village.
No building or development permit shall be issued for developments, buildings
(other than individual single-family homes) or subdivisions unless and until
evidence of liability insurance has been provided to the Village with limits of
liability in at least the following amounts:
      1.   General liability:
         a.   Each occurrence, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00); and
         b.   Personal injury, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00); and
         c.   General aggregate, two million dollars ($2,000,000.00); and
         d.   Products, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      2.   Automobile liability:
         a.   Any vehicle including hired vehicles and nonowned vehicles, one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      3.   Excess/umbrella liability on an occurrence basis:
         a.   Each occurrence, three million dollars ($3,000,000.00); and
         b.   Aggregate, three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
      4.   Workers' compensation and employers' liability:
         a.   Each occurrence, five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00); and
         b.   Policy maximum, five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00); and
         c.   Occupational disease, five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00).
Said insurance shall insure the contractor, developer or entity primarily
responsible for the construction or project and shall name as additional
insureds:
      1.   The property owner; and
      2.   The Village of North Barrington and its officers, agents and
independent contractors having any responsibilities as to the work being
performed (including engineers, surveyors, building and enforcement officers
and attorneys). (Ord. 1086, 3-20-2006)
   B.   Occupancy Permits: No occupancy permit shall be granted by any
governing official for the use of any structure within any subdivision approved
for platting or replatting until required utility facilities have been
installed and made ready to service the property, and that roadways providing
access to the subject lot or lots have been constructed, or are in the course
of construction. (1977 Code § 11-1-5)
   C.   Temporary Occupancy Permits: At the discretion of the Building and
Zoning Officer, a temporary occupancy permit may be issued for a specific
period of time not to exceed six (6) months, and a bond, if appropriate,
required. (2004 Code)
9-1-7: RECORD DRAWINGS:
   A.   Reproducible record drawings signed and sealed by the design engineer
or other independent professional employed by the subdivider shall clearly show
any and all changes from the approved drawings. Record drawings shall be
submitted to the Village Engineer prior to the subdivider's or developer's
request for final inspection of the required improvements. The record drawings
shall be based on actual measurements of both horizontal and vertical
dimensions, made after the completion of the work. Record drawings shall
include, but are not limited to, the following information:
      1.   Location of streetlight poles and cable run to power source.
      2.   Location and elevation of structures (storm and sanitary sewer
system).
      3.   Depth and location of utility mains.
      4.   Drainage swale grades and capacity calculations.
      5.   Stormwater detention basin contours and volume calculations.
   B.   One mylar copy and three (3) blue line copies shall be submitted to
meet this requirement. A digital copy of the record drawing and the final plat
of subdivision as recorded (AutoCAD) shall also be submitted.
   C.   An electronic copy of the record drawing and the final plat of
subdivision as recorded shall be submitted in AutoCAD format, as approved by
the Village Engineer, and referenced to the Illinois state plane coordinate
system and NGVD88 datum. (Ord. 1200, 2-23-2011)
9-1-8: COSTS AND EXPENSES TO SUBDIVIDER:
   A.   Public Improvements: All public improvements proposed to be made under
the provisions of this title shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the Village Engineer or a duly designated deputy. All fees and
costs connected with such inspection and with reviewing the plans and
specifications for such improvements shall be paid by the subdivider.
   B.   Deposit For Expenses: Prior to the consideration of any subdivision
application by the corporate authorities or by any officer or employee of the
Village, the petitioner for such subdivision shall deposit with the Village in
a trust and agency account such sum as is reasonably required, in the opinion
of the Board of Trustees, to initially compensate the Village for the
engineering, planning and legal expenses expected to be incurred by the Village
in considering such subdivision application. The amount of such deposit may be
increased or decreased from time to time by the Board of Trustees as is
reasonably necessary to compensate the Village for such expenses and will be
referred as a "trust and agency account" as set forth in section
1-8-5 of this code. (1977 Code § 11-1-6; amd. 2004 Code)
9-1-9: DEDICATIONS OF LAND:
All offerings or dedications of land to the Village for use as streets,
highways, alleys, schools, parks, playgrounds or other public uses shall be
referred to the Plan Commission for review and recommendation before being
accepted by the Village Board or any other governing authority of the Village.
(1977 Code §
11-1-2)
9-1-10: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL:
The provisions of title 5, chapter 1 of this code relative to erosion and
sedimentation control apply to all subdivisions (as well as to actions not
constituting subdivisions of property). (1977 Code § 11-1-11)
9-1-11: VARIATIONS:
The Village Board may waive or vary the strict requirements of any of the
provisions of this title, including the requirement of a plat of subdivision if
such waiver of plat requirement is consistent with state statutes, when the
Village Board finds that there are unusual or extraordinary conditions or
hardships relative to the property or that the enforcement of the regulations
in a specific case is not required in the public interest. In addition, where
the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships may result from strict
application of the requirements of the regulations of this title to any
proposed plat of subdivision or otherwise finds that there are unusual
conditions or hardships relative to particular property and its development,
the Plan Commission may recommend to the Village Board that one or more
requirements of this title be waived as to said plat of subdivision. No
variation of this title shall be granted except by motion or resolution adopted
by the Village Board or by acceptance of such plat by the Village Board. (1977
Code § 11-1-9)
9-1-12: CULVERT MATERIALS:
Culverts located within the right of way of public streets, whether under
driveways or under the streets themselves, as well as culverts under driveways
located on private property, shall be constructed under the supervision of the
Village Engineer and shall be constructed of one of the following materials and
shall have the following specifications:
   A.   Reinforced concrete; or
   B.   Corrugated polyethylene with smooth interior; or
   C.   Polyvinyl chloride.
All flared end sections, fittings and specials shall match the pipe in all
respects. It is preferred that all portions of such pipe which are visible
after installation has been completed be a neutral color.
All pipe, except reinforced concrete, shall have at least twelve inches (12")
of cover from the top of the pipe to the bottom of the hard surface pavement,
except where lesser cover is authorized by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 1142, 4-
23-2008)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATTING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Preapplication Procedure
9-2-2: Preliminary Plat; Conditional Approval
9-2-3: Final Plat; Approval
9-2-1: PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Submission Of Plans And Data: Previous to the filing of an application
for conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may submit to
the Plan Commission plans and data as specified in chapter 5 of this title.
This item does not require formal application, fee, or filing of plat with the
Plan Commission.
   B.   Approval Or Denial Of Plans And Data: Within thirty (30) days the Plan
Commission shall inform the subdivider that the plans and data as submitted or
as modified do or do not meet the objectives of these regulations. When the
Plan Commission finds that the plans and data do not meet the objectives of
these regulations, it shall express its reasons therefor. (1977 Code § 11-3-1;
amd. 2004 Code)
9-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT; CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
   A.   Preparation Of Preliminary Plat And Other Materials: On reaching
conclusions, informally, as recommended in section
9-2-1 of this chapter regarding his general program and objectives, the
subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat, together with
improvement plans and other supplementary material as specified in chapter 5 of
this title.
   B.   Submission To Village: Twelve (12) copies of the preliminary plat and
supplementary material specified shall be submitted to the Village with written
application for conditional approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the
initial Plan Commission meeting at which it is to be considered.
   C.   Deposit Required: Along with the application for conditional approval
of the preliminary plat, the subdivider must deposit in the "trust and agency
(T&A) account" with the Village such amount as determined by the Village
President 1 . This account is to be used to provide reimbursement to the
Village for Village expenditures for all staff and outside consultants' time to
review and approve plans, specifications and other documents and for
construction supervision of the approved subdivision improvements. This account
must be maintained until subdivision improvements have been approved. Upon
approval of the improvements, any account funds not used will be returned to
the subdivider. (1977 Code § 11-3-2; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Approval Or Disapproval: Following review of the preliminary plat and
other data submitted in compliance with these regulations, and following
discussions with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind and
extent of improvements to be made by the subdivider, the Plan Commission shall,
within ninety (90) days from the date of the application or the filing by the
subdivider of the last item of required supporting data, act on the plat and
data as submitted or modified, and if approved, the Plan Commission shall
express its approval as "conditional approval" and state the conditions of such
approval, if any; if disapproved, the Plan Commission shall express its
disapproval in writing and its reasons therefor. The Plan Commission's action
shall be forwarded to the corporate authorities for final action.
   E.   Approval Required By Corporate Authorities; Notice: The corporate
authorities shall approve or disapprove the proposed preliminary plat within
sixty (60) days after the decision of the Plan Commission. By mutual agreement,
the subdivider and corporate authorities may agree to extend the sixty (60) day
period.
   F.   Distribution Of Copies: The actions of the Plan Commission and
corporate authorities shall be noted on three (3) copies of the preliminary
plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One copy shall be
returned to the subdivider, one retained by the Plan Commission, and one
retained by the Village Clerk. (Ord. 1092, 6-28-2006)
   G.   Approval Of Preliminary Plat Not Approval Of Final Plat: Conditional
approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final plat.
Rather it shall be deemed an expression of approval to the layout submitted on
the preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will
be submitted for approval by the Plan Commission not later than one year after
preliminary approval has been granted.
   H.   Areas Subjected To Flooding; Surface Water Drainage: No plat will be
approved for a subdivision which does not comply with the requirements of title
5, chapter 5 of this code. (1977 Code § 11-3-2; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-8-5 of this code.
9-2-3: FINAL PLAT; APPROVAL:
   A.   Requests For Approval Of Final Plat: Requests for approval of the final
plat shall be submitted in writing to the Plan Commission at least forty five
(45) days prior to the meeting at which it is to be considered and shall be
submitted within six (6) months after approval of the preliminary plat unless
such time is extended by the corporate authorities. (Ord. 1092, 6-28-2006)
   B.   Conformance With Preliminary Plat: The final plat shall conform
substantially to the preliminary plat as approved, and if desired by the
subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary
plat which he proposes to record and develop at the time; provided, however,
that such portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations.
   C.   Distribution Of Copies; Time Limit: Four (4) copies of the final plat,
plans and other exhibits required for approval shall be prepared as specified
in chapter 5 of this title, and shall be submitted to the Plan Commission for
review by the Village Engineer within one year after approval of the
preliminary plat; otherwise, such approval shall become null and void unless
application for an extension of time is made to and granted by the Plan
Commission.
   D.   Approval Or Disapproval By Plan Commission: Within forty five (45) days
after application for approval, the Plan Commission shall approve or disapprove
the final plat; provided, that the subdivider has supplied all documents and
materials required by ordinance or law. If the Plan Commission approves, it
shall be certified by the signature of its chair. If the Plan Commission
disapproves, it shall set forth its reasons in its own records, and provide the
applicant and the corporate authorities with copies.
   E.   Approval Required By Corporate Authorities; Notice: The corporate
authorities shall approve or disapprove the proposed final plat within sixty
(60) days after the decision of the Plan Commission. By mutual agreement, the
subdivider and corporate authorities may agree to extend the sixty (60) day
period. (1977 Code § 11-3-3; amd. 2004 Code)
   F.   Recordation Of Plat: The subdivider shall post a performance guarantee
with the Village as set forth in section
9-3-2 of this title and the final plat shall be recorded in the office of the
Lake County Recorder by the Village or its designee within one year after the
date of its approval. The corporate authorities may extend such time for
posting the performance guarantee and of recording in its discretion upon
application. (Ord. 1092, 6-28-2006)
CHAPTER 3
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; PERFORMANCE, MAINTENANCE AND ACCEPTANCE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Subdivider's Responsibility
9-3-2: Performance Guarantee
9-3-3: Inspection Of Improvements
9-3-4: Default, Failure To Complete Improvements
9-3-5: Acceptance Procedure
9-3-6: Maintenance Guarantee
9-3-7: Repairs By Village
9-3-1: SUBDIVIDER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
All required improvements shall be made by the subdivider at the subdivider's
expense without reimbursement of any kind or nature by or from the Village.
Nothing shall be construed to require the subdivider to a file a performance
guarantee or deposit other security until the subdivider's final plat has been
approved by the corporate authorities in all other respects and the subdivider
has been notified of such approval; provided, however, such performance
guarantee shall be filed with the Village prior to execution of the plat by any
officials of the Village. (2004 Code)
9-3-2: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
To assure the satisfactory installation and completion of all required
improvements, a performance guarantee acceptable to the Village shall be
provided. In conformance with state statutes, the performance guarantee shall
be either cash, cash escrow deposit, a letter of credit or surety bond. No
final plat shall be recorded until a performance guarantee meeting the
following requirements has been deposited with the Village:
   A.   Forms:
      1.   Cash: A cashier's check, certified check, bank draft, bank money
order or other instrument in a readily negotiable form acceptable to and
approved by the Village Treasurer and made payable to the Village, and in an
amount determined by the Village Engineer to be sufficient to pay for the cost
of construction of the improvement and all engineering costs, including the
engineering and inspection fees of the Village.
      2.   Cash Escrow Deposit:
         a.   A cash escrow account in the amount required shall be established
with a financial institution which meets the approval of the Board of Trustees.
The account shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of the
escrow agreement to be negotiated by the Board of Trustees and the owner,
developer and/or subdivider and approved by the Village Attorney. Such
agreement shall contain provisions for specific application of such funds,
partial contract layouts, contract retention percentages until completion, pro
rata reduction of deposit excess, final escrow settlement and other pertinent
administrative matters.
         b.   Such escrow agreement shall also provide that twenty five percent
(25%) of the escrow amount shall be retained until the Village Engineer has
approved the required improvements and all public improvements have been
accepted by the Village.
         c.   The financial institution shall disburse funds from time to time
for the purposes provided upon presentation of, and in accordance with, payout
orders issued by the owner's engineer and approved by the Village President.
Such disbursements shall not be subject to approval or disapproval by the owner
or financial institutions or their agents other than said owner's engineer;
however, for accounting purposes, the Village shall send to the owner a copy of
the approved engineer's estimate for payment at time of Village approval. Each
payout order shall be accompanied by all appropriate sworn statements,
affidavits and supporting waivers of lien in full compliance with the Illinois
mechanics lien law 1 .
         d.   If the Village President notifies the financial institution, in
writing, that the balance of funds undisbursed under the escrow account is more
than sufficient to cover the cost of construction, fees and maintenance, and if
the financial institution concurs, the financial institution shall pay to the
owner any excess of funds not disbursed under said escrow account. Any notice
written by the Village President shall specify the reduced balance deemed to be
necessary and sufficient so that the amount of excess funds can be calculated.
      3.   Letter Of Credit:
         a.   The subdivider or owner may file an irrevocable letter of credit
from any financial institution authorized by law to issue such a letter and
acceptable to the Village President and in form acceptable to the Village
Attorney.
         b.   Such letter of credit shall guarantee to the Village the
availability of the funds specified in the irrevocable letter of credit and
guarantee the availability of such funds specified from time to time and upon
the demand of the Village.
         c.   Such letter of credit shall be in an amount determined by the
Village Engineer to be sufficient to pay for the cost of construction of the
improvements and all engineering costs, including the engineering and
inspection fees of the Village.
         d.   Such letter of credit shall provide that the issuing financial
institution shall pay to the Village, or as the Village directs, such amounts
as may be required to complete the improvements according to the approved
specification.
         e.   Such letter of credit may provide that its amount will be reduced
from time to time as payments for improvements approved by the Village Engineer
are made.
         f.   Such letter of credit shall be irrevocable for at least twenty
four (24) months and shall provide that if any balance remains at the
expiration of any time limit placed on it, said balance shall be deposited with
the Village in a cash escrow or a new letter of credit in the amount of the
unpaid balance shall be issued or a surety bond shall be provided.
         g.   Such letter of credit shall also provide that twenty five percent
(25%) of the principal amount shall be retained until the Village Engineer has
approved the required improvements and all public improvements have been
accepted by the Village.
         h.   Such letter of credit shall provide that it shall remain in force
even though there have been amendments or modifications to the matter for which
it was issued.
         i.   Such letter of credit shall, by its terms, not expire until
thirty five (35) calendar days after written notice of expiration has been sent
by certified mail, return receipt requested, by the issuer to the Village.
         j.   Such letter of credit shall provide that in the event the issuer
fails to honor the Village's demand for payment under the terms of the letter
of credit, the issuer shall be responsible for the attorney fees and other
costs which may be incurred in enforcing collection.
      4.   Surety Bond:
         a.   The subdivider or owner may file a surety bond from an insurance
company or financial institution licensed to do business in the state of
Illinois, with A.M. Best rating of not less than A- and financial saving rating
of not less than VIII, in a form acceptable to the Village Attorney.
         b.   Such surety bond shall guarantee to the Village the availability
of the funds specified in the surety bond and guarantee the availability of
such funds specified from time to time and upon the demand of the Village.
         c.   Such surety bond shall be in an amount determined by the Village
Engineer to be sufficient to pay for the cost of construction of the
improvements and all engineering costs, including the engineering and
inspection fees of the Village.
         d.   Such surety bond shall provide that the issuing financial
institution shall pay to the Village, or as the Village directs, such amounts
as may be required to complete the improvements according to the approved
specification.
         e.   Such surety bond shall be irrevocable for at least twenty four
(24) months and shall provide that if any balance remains at the expiration of
any time limit placed on it, said balance shall be deposited with the Village
in a cash escrow or a new surety bond in the amount of the unpaid balance shall
be issued.
         f.   Such surety bond shall also provide that twenty five percent
(25%) of the principal amount shall be retained until the Village Engineer has
approved the required improvements and all public improvements have been
accepted by the Village; provided, however, the subdivider or owner may
substitute a maintenance surety bond.
         g.   Such surety bond shall provide that it shall remain in force even
though there have been amendments or modifications to the matter for which it
was issued.
         h.   Such surety bond shall, by its terms, not expire until thirty
five (35) calendar days after written notice of expiration has been sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, by the issuer to the Village.
         i.   Such surety bond shall provide that in the event the issuer fails
to honor the Village's demand for payment under the terms of the surety bond,
the issuer shall be responsible for the attorney fees and other costs which may
be incurred in enforcing collection.
   B.   Term And Extension:
      1.   The initial term of any performance guarantee shall be determined by
the Board of Trustees and shall be specified by the Board of Trustees in the
resolution approving the final plat. However, in no event shall such initial
term exceed thirty (30) months from the date of approval by the Board of
Trustees of the final plat.
      2.   The Board of Trustees, for good cause, may extend the term of the
performance guarantee for such additional period or periods where they find it
reasonable and appropriate and in the best interests of the public health,
safety and welfare.
   C.   Amount: The amount of the performance guarantee shall cover all
construction costs, and the Village's engineering and inspection costs, and all
maintenance costs until acceptance by the Village. The guarantee shall be in
the following minimum amounts unless the owner can show that certain of the
costs have already been paid:
      1.   Construction Costs: Unless otherwise provided in an annexation
agreement, development agreement or other document, one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the estimated construction costs approved by the Village Engineer.
      2.   Village Engineering And Inspection Costs: Actual costs incurred.
   D.   Reductions: A performance guarantee may, in the sole discretion of the
Board of Trustees, be reduced by an amount equal to the improvements which have
been completed according to the plans, specifications and provisions; provided,
that the Village Engineer has certified, in writing, that such improvements
have been satisfactorily completed and a revised estimate of the cost of the
remainder of the improvements is included. In no event shall a performance
guarantee be reduced below twenty five percent (25%) of the original principal
amount. The balance of the performance guarantee shall not be released until
all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and the
subdivider's engineer or surveyor has certified to the Village Engineer,
through submission of a detailed as built survey, plat of the subdivision,
indicating location, dimensions, materials and other information required in
these regulations or by the Village Engineer, that the layout of the line and
grade of all improvements is in accordance with the construction plans for the
subdivision and showing any other information required by the Village Engineer.
   E.   Insufficient Fund Balance: If, at any time before the construction of
all required improvements has been completed, the balance of funds remaining
undisbursed or unobligated under a performance guarantee is not sufficient, in
the sole judgment of the Village Engineer, to cover the cost including the
engineering and inspection fees of the Village, or if by reason of any claim of
lien or any order, decree or writ of any court, or for any other reason, the
said undisbursed balance of funds shall be withheld, diminished or otherwise
unavailable for the purposes provided herein, the owner, by acceptance of the
approval of owner's final plat, agrees to cause the balance to be increased to
such amount as shall be required by the Village for such purposes, or shall
provide such other performance guarantee as may be required by the Village.
   F.   Guarantee For Subdivisions Outside Village Limits: A performance
guarantee will not be required by the Village for a subdivision or that part of
a subdivision which is located outside of the corporate limits of the Village,
if a performance guarantee has been filed with the county in which said
subdivision is located.
   G.   Time Limit: All performance guarantees shall provide that if required
improvements are not installed within two (2) years of approval of the final
plat, the Village may deem the subdivider in default and proceed accordingly;
provided, however, such time period may be extended by the Board of Trustees
where they find it reasonable and appropriate and in the best interests of the
public health, safety and welfare. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 770 ILCS 60/0.01 et seq.
9-3-3: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Required: All required land improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this title shall be inspected at the subdivider's expense. The
subdivider's licensed engineer, as agent for the subdivider shall provide an
inspector on the job during the process of construction. When the work has been
completed, the subdivider's engineer shall certify that the improvements comply
in all respects with the approved plans and specifications and with the
requirements of this title. All work shall be, at all times, subject to
inspection by the Village code enforcement officer, the Village Engineer, other
Village officials and their representatives.
   B.   Notification: Before starting the construction of any improvements, the
subdivider shall ascertain from the Village Engineer what inspections are
required and the amount of notification desired in each case. In no event shall
notice to the Village Engineer be less than forty eight (48) hours prior to a
desired inspection.
   C.   Subdivider's Responsibility: Regardless of contracts, agreements or
inspections performed, the subdivider shall be solely responsible for the
installation of all improvements in accordance with the applicable standards.
   D.   Time Limit On Construction Of Public Improvements: All improvements
required under the provisions of this title shall be completed within two (2)
years of approval of a plat or the subdivider shall be considered in default.
(2004 Code)
9-3-4: DEFAULT, FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS:
If the subdivider fails to perform the work on the improvements with sufficient
workers and equipment or with sufficient materials to ensure the completing of
the work within the specified time or shall perform such work that is rejected
as defective and unsuitable or should discontinue the prosecution of the work
or for any other cause shall not carry on the work in an approved manner, the
Board of Trustees shall give notice to the subdivider and specify what is to be
corrected or repaired. If, in the sole discretion of the Board of Trustees, the
subdivider fails to undertake to correct or repair immediately that which is
set forth in said notice, the Board of Trustees may:
   A.   Advise the subdivider of failure, in writing, giving the subdivider
thirty (30) calendar days to cure such default. If the subdivider fails to cure
said default, the Village may, at its option, declare subdivider in default
and, upon written notification to the financial institution of such declaration
of default, all monies on deposit pursuant to the escrow agreement or available
pursuant to a letter of credit shall and may be disbursed by the financial
institution solely upon authorization of the Village President and Village
Treasurer; and/or
   B.   The Village Treasurer shall cash all financial institution funds and
deposit them in the appropriate Village account to complete the required
improvements. The Board of Trustees may then make such contract or contracts,
not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of performance guarantee, as
necessary and appropriate or use any other reasonable methods to provide for
the completion of the work in an acceptable manner. The Board of Trustees is
authorized to take whatever other actions, including, but not limited to, the
institution of litigation, as it deems necessary or appropriate in order to
complete the improvements; and/or
   C.   Require the subdivider to submit a new performance guarantee in an
amount sufficient to cover any increased cost of constructing the required
improvements. (2004 Code)
9-3-5: ACCEPTANCE PROCEDURE:
Upon completion of all required subdivision improvements, the developer's
engineer shall prepare a certified statement that the improvements comply with
the plans and specifications approved by the Village authorities and shall
forward same to the Village Clerk together with a request for approval of
improvements. The Village Engineer shall verify whether the improvements comply
with the approved plans and specifications and shall prepare a statement of
approval for the Village Board. Upon acceptance of that statement of approval,
and upon submittal of the maintenance guarantee required in this chapter, the
Village Board shall then direct the Village Clerk to direct the financial
institution or the financial institution issuing the letter of credit to pay
over to the owner, without further demand or notice, any balance of funds then
remaining undisbursed under said construction cost escrow agreement or letter
of credit. (2004 Code)
9-3-6: MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   Conditions Of Guarantee: The owner shall establish cash, a cash escrow
account or provide a letter of credit or surety bond in the amount of twenty
five percent (25%) of the final construction costs of the improvements to
guarantee cost of replacement of defective materials within the limits of the
improvements. Said maintenance guarantee shall remain in force for the two (2)
year maintenance period and shall be for use by the Village to effect such
repairs deemed necessary for public safety and which the owner has neglected to
repair for a forty eight (48) hour period after notification. Disbursements
from the cash escrow account or pursuant to the letter of credit shall be made
solely upon the direction of the Village and shall not be given subject to
approval or disapproval by the owner, financial institution or the financial
institution issuing the letter of credit or their agents.
   B.   Maintenance Of Improvements: The subdivider shall be required to
maintain all improvements in the subdivision until all maintenance guarantees
of the subdivider have been released and the subdivider has performed all
maintenance agreements with the Village. Maintenance by the subdivider shall
not include removal of snow on streets and other public ways, which the Village
shall undertake.
   C.   Termination Of Guarantee: At the termination of the time period
specified for the posting of any maintenance guarantee, the guarantee, or any
part remaining, shall be released to the subdivider.
   D.   Defects In Materials And Workmanship: The owner shall guarantee public
improvements against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of two
(2) years from the date of acceptance of public street improvements or approval
of private street improvements by the Village. The owner agrees to repair or
replace any of said public improvements which, during said two (2) year period
after acceptance, shall become damaged or deficient due to defective materials
or workmanship. (2004 Code)
9-3-7: REPAIRS BY VILLAGE:
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village authorities from curing,
repairing or correcting any defect or failure or from maintaining any
improvement and charging all costs to the subdivider or the subdivider's
performance or maintenance guarantee bond if the public health, safety and
welfare requires that immediate and/or emergency action be taken. If such
repairs, replacements or other work exceeds the subdivider's performance or
maintenance guarantee, the subdivider shall be liable for such excess and shall
immediately remit the same to the Village Treasurer. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Compliance With Regulations
9-4-2: Sanitary Sewage System
9-4-3: Water Supply
9-4-4: Stormwater Management
9-4-5: Streets
9-4-6: Alleys
9-4-7: Easements
9-4-8: Blocks
9-4-9: Lots
9-4-10: Building Setback Lines
9-4-11: Parks, Schools And Public Areas
9-4-12: Preservation And Restoration Of Natural Features
9-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
   A.   The subdivision of lands, including the arrangement, character, extent,
width, grade and location of all highways, streets, crosswalks, easements,
sites for parks, playgrounds and schools, or other land to be dedicated for
public use, shall substantially conform to the official comprehensive plan of
the Village and all maps which are a part thereof 1 . (Ord. 1185, 3-31-2010)
   B.   Before a subdivision shall be approved, the Village Engineer shall
certify that the improvements described in the subdivider's plan and
specifications, together with agreement, meet the minimum requirements of all
ordinances of the Village and this code and that they comply with the
regulations and standards as set forth in this chapter. (1977 Code § 11-4-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-3 of this title.
9-4-2: SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM:
Any individual sewage disposal system(s) (septic system) shall meet all the
requirements of and shall be approved by the Village and, if required by law,
the Lake County health department. Any sewerage system designated as public
shall meet the requirements of the Village in title 4 of this code and the
Illinois environmental protection agency. (1977 Code § 11-4-2; amd. 2004 Code)
9-4-3: WATER SUPPLY:
Any individual water supply shall meet all requirements of and shall be
approved by the Lake County health department. Any water supply designated as
public water supply shall meet the requirements of the Lake County health
department and the Illinois environmental protection agency. (1977 Code § 11-4-
3; amd. 2004 Code)
9-4-4: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
A properly designed stormwater management system is required for all
developments in compliance with the requirements set forth in title 5, chapter
5 of this code and shall conform to the Lake County "comprehensive stormwater
management plan" and the requirements set forth below:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   All developments, whether public or private, shall include
provisions for the construction of a stormwater runoff conveyance system,
swales, drainage ditches, culvert pipes, storm sewers, detention and retention
basins, individually or in combination, shall constitute the stormwater runoff
conveyance system.
      2.   All streams, channels, or storm sewers shall be designed to
accommodate stormwater runoff from all areas, which naturally flow from the
area of development.
   B.   Design:
      1.   Design Runoff Rates: Minor drainage systems (storm sewers, swales
and ditches), as defined by title 5, chapter 5 of this code, conveyance of flow
from tributary areas of less than one hundred (100) acres may be based on
calculations using the rational method using the formula Q = c x i x A, where:
Q = runoff flow in cubic feet per second
c = runoff coefficient, characteristic of the tributary area in dimensionless
units
i = average rainfall intensity in inches per hour
A = tributary drainage area in acres
      2.   Rainfall Intensity:
         a.   The average rainfall intensity used for design shall be selected
from rainfall intensity curves based on Illinois state water survey bulletin
70.
         b.   The rainfall intensity for design of storm sewers or minor swales
and ditches shall be based on a rainstorm with a 10-year reoccurrence interval.
         c.   The rainfall intensity for design of major storm sewers in
combination with streams and channels shall be based on a rain storm with a
100-year recurrence interval.
      3.   Runoff Coefficients:
         a.   The runoff coefficient is the ratio of runoff to rainfall and
shall assume saturated conditions.
         b.   Runoff coefficient, "c", shall be a minimum of:
Impervious areas = 0.95
Pervious areas = 0.30
         c.   Runoff coefficients for undeveloped areas outside of the limits
of the proposed development shall be a minimum c = 0.50.
      4.   Stream, Channel And Storm Sewer Hydraulics:
         a.   Streams and channels shall be designed to provide design flow
capacity based on Manning's formula:
A2/3 x 1.486 x (r1/2) x (S)
n
Where:
Q = Quantity of flow in cubic feet per second
A = Area of the conduit in square feet
n = Roughness coefficient of the conduit (dimensionless)
r = Hydraulic radius = area of the conduit divided by wetted perimeter
S = Slope in feet per foot
         b.   Roughness Coefficients:
            (1)   Concrete pipe: n = 0.013
            (2)   Channel, sodded: n = 0.020
            (3)   Streams, clean: n = 0.030
            (4)   Stream, obstructed: n = 0.150
         c.   Velocities: Design velocities shall be:
            (1)   Storm sewers: minimum two feet per second (2 fps), maximum
ten feet per second (10 fps);
            (2)   Channels and streams:
   (A) Lined: minimum two feet per second (2 fps); maximum ten feet per second
(10 fps).
   (B) Unlined: minimum two feet per second (2 fps); maximum five feet per
second (5 fps).
      5.   Storm Sewers:
         a.   Storm sewers, when allowed, shall be designed such that the
hydraulic gradient shall be at an elevation no greater than six inches (6")
below the west structure frame.
         b.   Minimum storm sewer size shall be ten inches (10").
         c.   Storm sewers shall be laid straight in both horizontal and
vertical planes between structures unless otherwise approved in writing by the
Village Engineer.
         d.   Storm sewers of differing diameters shall join at structures
only. The invert elevations shall be adjusted to maintain a uniform energy
gradient by matching the 0.8 depth points of the differing diameters.
         e.   Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried
across or around street intersections. Inlets shall be spaced such that
overland flow shall not build up a flow exceeding one cubic foot per second (1
cfps); except, that curb inlets shall be located such that not more than three
hundred feet (300') of gutter is tributary to an inlet or as otherwise approved
by the Village Engineer. Inlets shall be provided at all low points.
         f.   Manholes shall be provided at:
            (1)   Changes in direction, horizontal or vertical.
            (2)   Changes in shape or size of pipe.
            (3)   Junction of pipes.
            (4)   Maximum spacing four hundred feet (400') for sewers forty two
inches (42") in diameter and smaller; five hundred feet (500') for sewers forty
eight inches (48") in diameter and larger.
      6.   Drainageways:
         a.   Existing streams and channels may be maintained, stabilized,
realigned or channelized subject to requirements of the Illinois department of
natural resources, office of water resources, the U.S. army corps of engineers,
the federal emergency management agency, and title 5, chapter 5 of this code.
         b.   Where streams and channels are allowed to be realigned or
channelized, the bottom shall be stabilized and the banks shall be protected
from erosion by methods approved by the Village Engineer and in compliance with
title 5, chapter 1 of this code.
      7.   Floodplains: All construction in floodplains shall conform to title
5, chapter 5 of this code.
   C.   Material And Construction Requirements: All material specifications and
construction methods shall be determined by the Village Engineer and shall be
in accordance with the latest edition of the Illinois department of
transportation's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
(1977 Code § 11-4-4; amd. 2004 Code)
9-4-5: STREETS:
   A.   Scope: All streets shall be considered in their relation to existing
and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and
safety, and in their relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by
such streets.
   B.   Arrangement Of Streets: Where such is not shown in the maps, which are
a part of the official comprehensive plan, the arrangement of streets in a
subdivision shall either:
      1.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas; or
      2.   Conform to a plan for the area or neighborhood approved or adopted
by the Plan Commission to meet a particular situation where topographical or
other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets
impracticable.
   C.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   D.   Cul-De-Sacs: The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be eight hundred
feet (800') measured along the centerline from the intersection at origin
through center of circle to end of right of way.
   E.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited.
   F.   Intersections And Street Jogs:
      1.   All street intersections and confluences should encourage safe
traffic flow.
      2.   Street jogs at intersections with centerline offsets of less than
one hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
      3.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at less than
sixty degrees (60°).
      4.   No more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point.
   G.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited. (1977 Code § 11-4-5;
amd. 2004 Code)
   H.   Street Names: No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Existing street names shall be
used wherever possible. Street names shall be submitted by the subdivider in
advance to the appropriate local U.S. postal service office for approval and
shall be subject to approval by the Plan Commission. (Ord. 1175, 11-18-2009)
   I.   Grades Of Streets: Roadway grades shall provide proper relation between
the roadway and the first floor elevation of the houses or buildings and permit
convenient and economical access to the drainage of the lots. (1977 Code § 11-
4-5; amd. 2004 Code)
   J.   Visibility: Stopping sight distance, measured along the centerline of
the roadway, shall be provided for at least three hundred feet (300') on all
collector streets and two hundred feet (200') on minor streets.
   K.   Curves:
      1.   Where there is a deflection in the street alignment in excess of one
degree (1°), a curve shall be inserted with a radius of not less than the
following:
 
Collector street 300 feet
Minor street     150 feet
 
      2.   All vertical grade changes in the roadway centerline of more than
one percent (1%) shall require a vertical curve of two hundred feet (200')
minimum length.
   L.   Design And Construction Requirements:
      1.   Table Of Minimum Standards For Street And Roadway Design:
SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR
SUBDIVISION ROADS IN THE VILLAGE OF NORTH BARRINGTON
 Marginal Access-Minor Collector
                      Marginal Access-Minor        Collector
Right of way          66' minimum (see note 1)     70' minimum (see note 1)
Horizontal alignment  150' minimum centerline      300' minimum centerline
                      radius                       radius
Roadway grade         Maximum 8% (see note 2)      Maximum 8% (see note 2)
Vertical curves       Minimum 200' length           
Road surface width    22' wide                     24' wide
Aggregate base course 10" compacted types          12" compacted types
Bituminous surface    1 1/2" binder                21/2" binder
                     11/2" surface                11/2" surface
                     Hot mix asphalt per SSRBC     
Cul-de-sac terminus   Minimum 84'; diameter of     Minimum 90'; diameter of
                      surface, 110' diameter ROW   surface, 100' diameter ROW
Width of shoulder     4'19" PCC adj. to point, 29" 4'
                      compacted type
Roadway ditches       24" deep, V type             24" deep, V type
                      Front: 3H:1V                 Front: 3:1
Maximum earth slopes  Back: 3:1                    Back: 3:1
                      (see note 3)                 (see note 3)
 
   General Notes:
(i)   Return radii at all intersections shall be a minimum of 50 feet. Corner
lots shall have lot line corner radii such that the distance from the edge of
the pavement to the right of way line is approximately 20 feet.
   (ii)   Design requirements for private streets shall be the same as public
streets or as determined by the Village Engineer, and approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   Note 1:   Wider right of way may be required if deemed necessary by the Plan
Commission.
   Note 2:   Maximum length vertical curves consistent with good engineering
practice and compatible with the terrain shall be used between changes in
grade.
   Note 3:   Earth slopes shall be as flat as possible and shall in all cases
be carried to the property line. Construction easements shall be indicated on
the plat at locations where additional width is required to meet slope
requirements.
Additional geometrics, including stopping sight distance, should be in
accordance with IDOT design manual (latest edition) requirements, or in such
cases that may be deemed advisable for proper development, minimum standards as
determined by the Plan Commission or Village Engineer.
      2.   Roadway Construction Specifications:
         a.   Design Methods: Roadway pavements shall be designed in accordance
with structural design methods described in the IDOT design manual (latest
edition). The minimum allowable structural design numbers (Dt) by street
classification shall be as follows:
 
Collector Min D t 3.15
Minor     Min Dt 2.95
 
         b.   Base Course:
            (1)   The minimum width of base course by street classification
shall be as follows:
 
Collector                32 feet
Minor and cul-de-sac leg 30 feet
Cul-de-sac circle        92 foot diameter
 
            (2)   Allowable base course materials shall include aggregate base
course, type B (crushed stone or crushed gravel), or bituminous base course all
as specified in the IDOT "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" (latest edition). The bearing capacity shall be determined by
"proof rolling" with a twenty five thousand (25,000) pound rubber tired vehicle
load provided by the contractor.
         c.   Primer: Prior to placing the bituminous binder and bituminous
surface course, the approved base course shall be primed in accordance with the
IDOT "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" (latest
edition).
         d.   Bituminous Binder And Surface Courses:
            (1)   Thickness:
 
        Minor And Cul-De-Sac   Collector
Binder  1 1/2" hot mix asphalt 21/2" hot mix asphalt
Surface 11/2" hot mix asphalt  11/2" hot mix asphalt
 
            (2)   Allowable surface course materials shall include hot mix
asphalt binder and surface course as specified in the IDOT "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" (latest edition); except, that
the final lift of bituminous surface shall not be placed until at least seventy
five percent (75%) of the subdivision lots are occupied by a building for which
an occupancy permit has been issued.
         e.   Shoulders: Shoulders shall be not less than four feet (4') in
width and shall consist of not less than nineteen inches (19") of PCC adjacent
to the surface course, and not less than twenty nine inches (29") of compacted
turf shoulder adjacent to the concrete shoulder material. (See typical roadway
section at the end of this chapter.)
All materials shall be in accordance with IDOT "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction", latest edition.
         f.   Ditches: Ditches of adequate capacity shall be provided on both
sides of the roadway. The slope from the shoulder line to the ditch and the
back slope to the existing grade shall not be greater than three to one (3:1).
The ditch flow line shall be not less than eighteen inches (18") below the
shoulder grade. (See typical roadway section at the end of this chapter.)
         g.   Bike Paths: Whenever constructed within the Village, bike paths
shall conform to the following standards:
            (1)   Bike paths shall be a minimum ten feet (10') in width to
provide for two-way traffic.
            (2)   The minimum construction of any bike path shall consist of a
six inch (6") type B aggregate base course with a two inch (2") bituminous
surface course.
            (3)   Bike paths shall have removable posts placed at all locations
necessary to prevent vehicular traffic from entering the paths.
            (4)   Construction of any bike path shall conform to the IDOT
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", latest edition,
except as provided herein, and the development standards.
            (5)   Bicycle lanes shall be appropriately signed and striped in
accordance with the "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
         h.   Improvements; Public And Private: All construction on private
property in a subdivision or development shall conform to the requirements
stated herein. No private improvements may be considered for future acceptance
by the Village unless constructed in accordance with this chapter. Public
rights of way shall be governed by the following:
            (1)   Parking Lots:
   (A) All parking lots shall be designed in conformance with:
(i) "Transportation And Traffic Engineering Handbook" - Institute of
Transportation Engineers, latest edition.
(ii) These development standards.
   (B) Parking areas shall be designed and constructed in accordance with this
chapter of these development standards set forth below:
Minimum structural number shall be 2.0 for parking stall areas and a minimum
structural number of 2.5 for aisles and fire lanes, but in no case less than
the minimum thickness as provided in this chapter.
   (C) Combination concrete curb and gutter type B 6:12 or concrete barrier
curb type B shall be constructed around the perimeter of all parking lots and
around all islands within parking lots.
   (D) Striping of the pavement surface to define each parking stall is
required except for single-family dwellings, and such striping shall be a
minimum of four inches (4") wide for the length of the stall. All areas
designed as fire lanes and/or "No Parking" shall be painted with yellow
stripes.
   (E) Any location within parking lots intended for storage of trash
containers exceeding 2.0 cubic yards' capacity shall be constructed of concrete
rather than bituminous surface as provided in this chapter and shall be
enclosed with an approved screen or enclosure.
            (2)   Driveways:
   (A) Design: All driveway designs shall be consistent with the projected
traffic volume, type of traffic, and type of roadway, and shall be subject to
the review and approval of the Village Engineer. All driveways shall meet the
minimum standards as shown in detail and the development standards. Driveway
design shall be based upon a maximum of twelve feet (12') per lane. Any
driveway designed for three (3) or more lanes shall be striped or divided as
approved by the Building and Zoning Officer or Village Engineer.
   (B) Distance And Number: Driveway access to arterials shall be kept to a
minimum. Whenever possible, adjacent uses shall share common driveway access to
arterials. The minimum distance between driveways on arterials and SRA shall be
three hundred feet (300'), unless otherwise permitted upon review by the
Village Engineer and other units of government when applicable.
   (C) Construction: Driveways within a site shall be constructed to the
minimum specifications as required in this chapter. Driveways with high volumes
of truck traffic or other heavy loads shall be constructed to collector road
standards.
            (3)   Private Streets: All streets which serve as access or
frontage to subdivided lots shall be dedicated to the public unless specific
approval is granted by the Village Board. When any private streets are approved
by the Village Board in accordance with the requirements of this title and are
constructed, the following construction specifications shall apply:
   (A) Design: Private streets shall conform to the requirements for public
streets as stated in this chapter regarding general layout, design,
intersections and offsets.
   (B) Construction: Private streets shall conform to the requirements for
public streets as provided in this chapter regarding pavement design and
specifications.
            (4)   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be constructed where pedestrian
and vehicular traffic may conflict on private streets and where necessary to
provide access from parking areas to buildings. Sidewalks shall have a minimum
clear width of five feet (5') and shall conform to the requirements for public
sidewalks as provided in this chapter.
            (5)   Bike Paths: Whenever constructed, bike paths shall comply
with the requirements for bike paths in public rights of way.
            (6)   Easements: Easements shall be required for any development in
order to provide for placement of public utilities, protection of residential
uses, continuity of waterways, flow and storage of stormwater runoff, and
pedestrian access. Easements shall be located whenever necessary to ensure
these objectives and shall be subject to use, design, and location conditions
stated in section
9-4-7 of this chapter.
            (7)   Sight Triangle: No improvements shall be placed, nor plant
materials allowed to grow within the sight triangle so as to obstruct or limit
the sight distance of motorists. Such a triangle shall have legs of twenty five
feet (25') along the rights of way lines when two (2) streets intersect and ten
feet (10') along the right of way line and the driveway edge when a street and
a driveway intersect. The maximum height of any obstruction shall be eighteen
inches (18") within the sight triangle, unless otherwise permitted by the
zoning ordinance.
      3.   Procedure For Construction:
         a.   Licensed Engineer: The subdivider shall employ a licensed
professional engineer who shall be responsible for establishing proper lines
and grades for construction of all required improvements.
         b.   Inspections Prior To Construction: Prior to the start of roadway
construction, the subdivider shall consult with the Village Engineer for the
purpose of reviewing plans for drainage facilities, grading, alignment and any
such other plans involving road construction. No less than five (5) days' prior
notice of such consultation shall be given by the subdivider to the Village
Engineer.
         c.   Unsuitable Materials: Where the Village Engineer finds that
unsuitable subgrade material is present, that material shall be removed and
replaced with granular materials deemed acceptable by the Village Engineer.
         d.   Placement Of Surfaces:
            (1)   Placement of the first lift of bituminous binder course shall
not be done until the base course installation has been approved and has been
in place over at least one winter season.
            (2)   Placement of the final lift of bituminous surface course
shall be done only when one of the following criteria is satisfied:
   (A) Seventy five percent (75%) or more of all lots are occupied with a
permanent residence; or
   (B) The approved base course has been in place for more than five (5) years.
(Ord. 1175, 11-18-2009)
9-4-6: ALLEYS:
Alleys in residential areas shall not be permitted. (1977 Code § 11-4-11)
9-4-7: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities and where necessary for drainage and shall be at least
ten feet (10') wide.
   B.   Easements shall be designed to provide continuity from block to block.
   C.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel, or stream, it shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right of way conforming substantially with the line of such watercourse and
shall include such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate
for the purpose and as determined by the Plan Commission. Parallel streets or
parkways may be required in connection therewith. (1977 Code § 11-4-6; amd.
2004 Code)
9-4-8: BLOCKS:
   A.   Determination Of Block Design: The lengths, widths, and shapes of
blocks shall be determined with due regard to:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions within the
corporate limits of the Village.
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic.
      4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Length Of Blocks: Block lengths shall not exceed one thousand eight
hundred feet (1,800') nor be less than six hundred feet (600').
   C.   Crosswalks: Pedestrian crosswalks not less than ten feet (10') wide
shall be required where deemed necessary by the Plan Commission to provide for
pedestrian circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation and other community facilities. (1977 Code § 11-4-7)
9-4-9: LOTS:
   A.   Lot Size And Design:
      1.   Lot dimensions and areas shall conform to the requirements of the
Village zoning ordinance within the Village limits or the comprehensive plan as
to unincorporated territory. However:
         a.   Where unusual soil conditions or other physical factors exist
which may impair the health and safety of the residents of the neighborhood in
which a subdivision may be located, upon recommendation of the state department
of public health, the Plan Commission may increase lot area requirements as may
be necessary.
         b.   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream
shall have a minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate building
site and to afford the minimum usable area required in this title or the
Village zoning ordinance for front, rear, and side yards.
      2.   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets on which they
abut.
      3.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
   B.   Abutment On Public Street: All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated
street unless otherwise approved by the Village Board.
   C.   Double And Reverse Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reverse frontage
lots should be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from highways or primary thoroughfares or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen
easement of at least ten feet (10'), and across which there shall be no right
of access, shall be provided along the lines of lots abutting such highways and
primary thoroughfares or other disadvantageous use. (1977 Code § 11-4-8; amd.
2004 Code)
9-4-10: BUILDING SETBACK LINES:
Building setback lines of new subdivisions shall conform to the provisions of
the Village zoning ordinance. (1977 Code § 11-4-9)
9-4-11: PARKS, SCHOOLS AND PUBLIC AREAS:
The Plan Commission shall recommend to the Village Board such subdivider
donations as shall be equitable, taking into consideration the size and impact
of the development on public bodies, topography, wetlands, wooded areas and
other features of the property. (1977 Code § 11-4-10)
9-4-12: PRESERVATION AND RESTORATION OF NATURAL FEATURES:
   A.   Purpose And Scope:
      1.   The purpose of this section is to provide a procedure by which new
developments can preserve the natural country atmosphere, which is prevalent
throughout the Village.
      2.   Requirements set forth herein are minimal in scope and are not to be
assumed as a restriction on landscaping efforts. Innovative ideas to naturalize
disturbed landscapes are encouraged as long as they meet the overall objective
of this section and the approval of the Plan Commission and the Village Board.
      3.   Restorative and landscaping measures set forth herein are intended
to cover only those areas of the subdivision disturbed in the course of making
the improvements required by this section. The subdivider is encouraged to
provide additional landscaping throughout the subdivision that will compliment
the existing features and the developed site. Of particular importance is the
matter of noise abatement along high noise generators such as regional and area
highways and collector streets where site grading and landscaping can do much
to preserve the natural quietness of a residential neighborhood.
   B.   Natural Features And Tree Inventories Submitted; Determinations: The
Plan Commission may require that the subdivider submit a natural features
inventory and a tree survey which inventories all trees on the property and
shows their location. Based thereon, the Plan Commission may designate what
existing features which would add value to residential development or to the
Village as a whole, such as trees, as herein defined, watercourses, historic
spots and similar irreplaceable assets, and which of them shall be preserved in
the design of the subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any subdivision
nor any change of grade of the land effected until approval of the preliminary
plat has been granted. All trees on the plat required to be retained shall be
guarded and preserved, and all trees, where required, shall be welled and
protected against change of grade.
   C.   Ground Cover: The Plan Commission may require that all disturbed areas
within the subdivision, including unimproved areas within the dedicated right
of way of streets and other public use areas, shall be restored by placing a
minimum of three inches (3") of topsoil, graded and seeded or sodded, in a
manner approved by the Village Engineer. Consideration shall also be given to
restoring select areas with natural growths of wildflowers, ground cover or
similar material.
   D.   Replacement Trees: Trees required to be replaced must be replaced with
the species listed herein. If nine (9) or fewer trees are being replaced, equal
numbers of at least three (3) of the listed species must be used. If ten (10)
or more trees are being replaced, equal numbers of at least eight (8) of the
varieties listed must be used. Replacement trees must be limited to the
following varieties:
Northern red oak (Quercus Borealis maxima)
Bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa)
Green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica)
White ash (Fraxinus americana)
Norway maple (Acer platanoides)
Red maple (Acer rubrum)
Sugar maple (Acer saccharum)
Chestnuts (Aesculus baumanni, Aesculus glabra, Aesculus hippocastanum, Aesculus
octandra, Aesculus brioti)
Euchlora linden (Tilia euchlora)
Hackberry (Celtis occidentalis)
European black elder (Ainus glutinosa) - wet situation
   E.   Steep Slopes: All slopes greater than three to one (3:1) shall be
restored by means of sod or suitable ground cover.
   F.   Landscape Plan:
      1.   The Plan Commission may require that landscape plans and
specifications be furnished as part of the overall development plan submittal.
The plans shall be prepared by a practicing landscape architect and contain the
following information:
         a.   Plant name, both Latin and English.
         b.   Planting location.
         c.   Number of plants in any one location.
         d.   Total number of plants to be provided.
      2.   Bushes and trees utilized in the plan shall be selected from the
Village approved listing of landscape materials on file with the Village
Engineer. Not less than three (3) species of bushes and three (3) species of
trees will be utilized in developing a plan for a proposed subdivision. (1977
Code § 11-4-12)
CHAPTER 5
PLATS AND DATA
SECTION:
9-5-1: Preapplication Plans And Data
9-5-2: Plats And Data For Preliminary Approval
9-5-3: Plats And Data For Final Approval
9-5-1: PREAPPLICATION PLANS AND DATA:
   A.   General subdivision data shall describe or outline the existing
conditions of the site and the proposed development as necessary to supplement
the drawings required below. This may include information on existing
covenants, land characteristics, and available community facilities and
utilities and information describing the subdivision proposal, such as number
of residential lots; typical lot width and depth; price range; business areas;
school, playground, and park areas; other public areas, proposed protective
covenants; and proposed utilities and street improvements.
   B.   Sketch plan on topographic survey shall show in simple sketch form the
proposed layout of streets, lots, and other features in relation to existing
conditions. The sketch plan may be a free-hand pencil sketch made directly on a
print of the topographic survey. The sketch plan shall include the existing
topographic data listed in section
9-5-2 of this chapter. (1977 Code § 11-5-1)
9-5-2: PLATS AND DATA FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL:
   A.   Preliminary plat shall be at a scale of one hundred feet to one inch
(1" = 100') or, if the area of the subdivision is more than two hundred (200)
acres, two hundred feet to one inch (1" = 200'). It shall show all existing
conditions, topographic data, and proposed improvements including the
following:
      1.   Boundary lines: bearings and distances.
      2.   Easements: location, width and description.
      3.   Existing and proposed streets on and adjacent to the tract; name and
width of right of way and pavement; approximate grades and gradients; angles,
radii, arcs and central angles of curves; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
      4.   Proposed lot lines, lot dimensions, building setback lines, lot
number, block numbers and lot area.
      5.   Sites, if any, to be reserved or dedicated for schools, parks,
playgrounds or other public uses.
      6.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings.
      7.   Site data table, including total tract acreage, number of
residential lots, average area of lots, acreage of streets and acreage of
public land to be dedicated other than streets.
      8.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
      9.   Location by section, township and range.
      10.   Name and address of the owner, developer, subdivider and engineer
or surveyor preparing the plat.
      11.   Title, graphical scale, northpoint and date.
      12.   Key plan showing location of the tract, lakes, streams, schools and
parks.
      13.   Identification and description of existing and proposed sewers,
water mains, fire hydrants, wells, culverts, septic systems (including minimum
seepage field area) or other underground facilities within the tract or
adjacent to the tract, indicating pipe sizes, grades, manholes and locations
and storm and sanitary sewer outfalls; location of existing gas lines, electric
and telephone lines. If water mains are not on or adjacent to the tract,
indicate the direction and distance to, and the sizes of, the nearest one.
      14.   Ground elevations on the tract based on the USGS datum plane.
Contour line shall be shown at one foot (1') intervals.
      15.   A natural resources inventory report by the Lake County soil and
water conservation district, plus additional subsurface conditions on the
tract, if required by the Plan Commission; location and results of tests made
to ascertain subsurface soil, rock, and groundwater conditions; depth
groundwater soils test pits are dry, at a depth of five feet (5'); location and
results of soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are
proposed. A soils survey map, prepared by a certified soils scientist, which
shows the soil conditions on the property based on examination of soils test
cores taken in intervals of not less than two hundred feet (200') each, but
with a minimum of two (2) per acre.
      16.   Other conditions on the tract: watercourses, marshes, rock outcrop,
wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot (1') or more in diameter,
houses, barns, shacks, and other significant features.
      17.   Other conditions within three hundred feet (300') of the tract:
approximate direction and gradient of ground slope, including any embankments
or retaining walls; character and location of buildings, railroads, power
lines, towers and other nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences;
and owners of adjacent unplatted land (for adjacent platted land, refer to
subdivision plat by name, recording data, and number, and show approximate
percent built up, typical lot size, and dwelling type).
      18.   The flow lines and shorelines of streams and channels; and the
normal water elevation and shorelines of lakes, ponds, swamps and other
detention basins.
      19.   The delineation of all floodplains and wetlands including base
flood elevations.
      20.   Location of existing field drainage tiles, inlets and outfalls, if
any.
      21.   Comprehensive drainage system plan (first in preliminary form),
designed to convey the stormwater runoff following the 100-year storm event in
accordance with title 5, chapter 5 of this code.
      22.   Other preliminary plans. When required by the Plan Commission, the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by profiles showing existing ground
surface and proposed street grades, including extension for a reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision; typical cross sections
of the proposed grading, roadway, and sidewalks; and preliminary plan of
proposed sanitary and stormwater sewers with grades and sizes indicated. All
elevations shall be based on the USGS datum plane.
      23.   Draft of proposed covenants whereby the subdivider proposes to
regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect the proposed
development.
   B.   A letter or statement from the Illinois department of natural resources
that the consultation process mandated by state law for possible endangered
species has been undertaken, with the results thereof, or evidence that the
consultation process has been undertaken. (1977 Code § 11-5-2)
9-5-3: PLATS AND DATA FOR FINAL APPROVAL:
The following are required for final plat approval:
   A.   The final plat shall be drawn on tracing cloth or mylar measuring not
less than eight and one-half inches by fourteen inches (81/2" x 14") nor more
than thirty inches by thirty six inches (30" x 36") with a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall show the following:
      1.   Monuments, primary control points, or descriptions and "ties" to
such control points, to which all dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data
on the plat shall be referred. A minimum of two (2) monuments shall be
referenced to the Illinois state plane coordinate system on the plat.
      2.   Tract boundary lines, right of way lines of streets, easements and
other rights of way, and property lines of residential lots and other sites,
with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, and radii, arcs and
central angles of all curves.
      3.   Name and right of way width of each street or other right of way.
      4.   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easement.
      5.   Number to identify each lot or site and block.
      6.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated
or reserved.
      7.   Building setback lines on all lots and other sites.
      8.   Location and description of monuments.
      9.   Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights of way and any sites
for public use.
      10.   Name of subdivision.
      11.   Complete metes and bounds legal description of the parcel to be
subdivided.
      12.   Location by section, township and range.
      13.   Title, scale, north arrow and date.
      14.   The following statement regarding septic systems: "In approving
this plat of subdivision, the municipality has not undertaken or reviewed any
tests or data relative to the suitability of individual lots for septic
systems. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the municipality will
require evidence that soil conditions for the lots in question permit the use
of septic systems".
      15.   Certificates and other such affidavits, endorsements or dedications
as may be required in the enforcement of these regulations. Certificates
include, but are not limited to: County Clerk certificate, municipal
certificate, owner's certificate, surveyor's certificate, drainage certificate,
school district certificate, highway department certificate, Lake County health
department certificate, Village Health Officer certificate, and Village
Engineer certificate.
   B.   Plans, profiles, and cross sections of streets showing grades, approved
by the Village Engineer. The profiles shall be drawn to Village standard scales
and elevations and shall be based on the NAVD88 datum plane.
C. Engineering plans and details of required public improvements including, but
not limited to, sanitary and storm sewer facilities approved by the Village
Engineer and Village Health Officer. The topography data on the engineering
plans shall include the surface water drainage certification as required by the
plat act of the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 .
   D.   Covenants, conditions and restrictions or other forms of protective
covenants in form for recording, if applicable.
   E.   Letter to the Lake County Recorder from the surveyor who prepared the
final plat designating the Village Clerk or the Village Attorney as the person
authorized to record the plat.
   F.   Soil borings and percolation tests for each proposed lot determined by
the Village Health Officer to be satisfactory pursuant to requirements of this
code. The tentative location on the lot of the septic field and any building
may be subject to change; provided, that soil borings and percolation test
results are determined by the Health Officer to be satisfactory at the
alternative location on the lot.
   G.   Provisions to implement ordinances of any fire protection district, if
applicable.
   H.   An electronic copy of the final approved subdivision plat shall be
submitted in AutoCAD format as approved by Village Engineer and referenced to
the Illinois state plane coordinate system and NGVD88 datum. (Ord. 1200, 2-23-
2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
DEDICATION OF LANDS FOR PUBLIC USE AND/OR CASH CONTRIBUTIONS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Legislative Intent
9-6-2: Criteria For Requiring School Site Dedications
9-6-3: Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreational Land Dedications
9-6-4: Fire/Rescue Capital Facilities Contributions And Site Dedication
9-6-5: Criteria For Requiring Library Site Dedication
9-6-6: Criteria For Requiring Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Dedications
9-6-7: Consumer Price Index
9-6-8: Density Formula
9-6-9: Reservation Of Additional Land
9-6-10: Combining With Adjoining Developments
9-6-11: Topography And Grading
9-6-12: Improved Sites
9-6-13: Environmental Risk Audit
9-6-14: Suitability Of Soils At Site
9-6-15: Title Insurance; Survey; Assessment Plats
9-6-16: Real Estate Tax Escrow
9-6-17: Objections
9-6-18: Annexation Of Land
9-6-19: Indemnification
9-6-20: Distribution
9-6-21: Needs Assessment; Land And Capital Facilities Acquisition Plan
9-6-22: Time Of Payment
9-6-23: Calculating Cash Contributions
9-6-24: Exhibits
9-6-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a final plat of
a planned development, each subdivider or developer shall be required to
dedicate land for library, Village park, recreational, fire/rescue and school
purposes to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the
development, or shall be required to make a cash contribution in lieu of actual
land dedication, or a combination of both, at the option of the Village with
the concurrence of the affected district or districts, which concurrence shall
be obtained in writing. However, the Village shall have the final decision
making power in this regard. Land dedication sites may be made to the Village
or to the applicable district at the discretion of the Village Board. The
dedications and cash contributions required hereunder shall be made in
accordance with the criteria and formulas of this chapter. (Ord. 915, 2-13-
2003)
9-6-2: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING SCHOOL SITE DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to be
generated by a subdivision or planned development shall bear directly on the
amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The land dedication
requirement shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of: 1) estimated
children to be served in each such school classification over the 2) maximum
recommended number of students to be served in each such school classification
as stated herein, and then applying such ratio to 3) the appropriate number of
acres for a school site of each such school classification as stated herein.
The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed needed to have sufficient
land for school sites to serve the estimated increase in number of students for
each such school classification.
However, if in the written opinion of the Village Administrator, the density
formula is not appropriately applied because the new development will be an age
restricted community or extended care facility that is not expected to have any
significant impact on school enrollment, the Village Administrator may
recommend to the Village Board that the educational facilities impact fee
requirements be waived or modified for the specific development without the
necessity of an objection procedure pursuant to section
9-6-17 of this chapter. The Village Board either may accept the recommendation
by a majority vote of the Board members, or failing that, may refer the matter
to the Plan Commission for consideration pursuant to the terms of section
9-6-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 1150, 11-19-2008)
   B.   School Classifications And Size Of School Site:
      1.   These requirements for acreage are based upon a review of available
data studies and literature on the subject, including, but not limited to,
information provided by the state superintendent of education and the unique
characteristics of the Village, including its general rural character and open
spaces, and the desire of the residents to maintain this character and open
space in future school sites. These requirements for acreage shall be presumed
as the appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in calculating any
cash in lieu of land dedication herein, unless timely objected to as provided
herein. Objections to these acreage requirements for any particular development
shall be made in accordance with section
9-6-17 of this chapter to the Plan Commission. Failure to timely object to
these acreage requirements in accordance with said section
9-6-17 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
      2.   School classifications and size of school sites within the Village
shall be determined in accordance with the following criteria:
SCHOOL DISTRICT 95
School Classification By Maximum Number Of Students Appropriate Number Of Acres
Grades                   For Each Such School       Of Land For Each School
                         Classification             Site Of Such Classification
SCHOOL DISTRICT 95
School Classification  Maximum Number Of      Appropriate Number Of Acres Of
By Grades              Students For Each Such Land For Each School Site Of Such
                       School Classification  Classification
Elementary schools,
grades kindergarten    600 students           11       acres
through fifth or sixth
Junior high schools,
grades sixth through   900 students           29       acres
eighth or seventh and
eighth
High schools, grades   1,500 students         45       acres
ninth through twelfth
SCHOOL DISTRICT 220
School Classification  Maximum Number Of      Appropriate Number Of Acres Of
By Grades              Students For Each Such Land For Each School Site Of Such
                       School Classification  Classification
Elementary schools,
grades kindergarten    500 students           15       acres
through fifth or sixth
Junior high schools,
grades sixth through   800 students           25       acres
eighth or seventh and
eighth
High schools, grades   2,500 students 500              acres acres adjacent
ninth through twelfth  (addn. only) 3,000     72 15 87 topresent high school
                       students total                  acres total
 
   C.   Location: The comprehensive school plan and/or the standards adopted by
the affected school district shall be used as a guideline in locating sites.
School sites shall be located in the Village in accordance with plans
heretofore or hereafter adopted by the school district. If the school district
has not planned a school site within the Village or the proposed subdivision or
planned development, or in the neighborhood in which such subdivision or
planned development is located, the school site shall be so located as to be
readily accessible to the greatest number of children projected for such
neighborhood. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-3: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING PARK AND RECREATIONAL LAND DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Suitability: The land for park and recreational dedications shall be
suitable for the purpose for which it is intended. Land set aside by developers
for parks, recreation and conservation purposes shall not be what has been
"left over" after residential, commercial and industrial development.
   B.   Requirement And Population Ratio:
      1.   The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear directly
on the amount of land required for dedication for park and recreational
purposes. The total requirement shall be ten (10) acres of land per one
thousand (1,000) of ultimate population and may be allocated by the Village
Board at its discretion based upon the following criteria:
 
Type Of Recreation Area     Minimum Size      Park Acreage Per 1,000 Persons
                                             
Play lot                    8,000 square feet < 1 acre
Neighborhood park           3 acres           2 acres
Villagewide park for active 10 acres          4 acres
sports
Villagewide community park  15 acres          4 acres
 
      2.   These requirements for acreage are based upon a review of available
data studies and literature on the subject, including, but not limited to, the
National Recreation and Park Association's "Recreation, Park and Open Space
Standards and Guidelines, 1990". These requirements shall be presumed as the
appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in calculating any cash in
lieu of land dedication herein unless timely objected to as provided herein.
Objections to these acreage requirements for any particular development shall
be made in accordance with section
9-6-17 of this chapter to the Plan Commission. Failure to timely object to
these acreage requirements in accordance with section
9-6-17 of this chapter shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection
at a later time.
   C.   Location: The park and recreation plans as adopted by the Village
comprehensive plan shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A central
location that will serve equally the entire development or a location that is
adjacent to existing park and recreational land is most desirable. In large
developments, these sites can be located throughout the development according
to established standards for park area distances. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-4: FIRE/RESCUE CAPITAL FACILITIES CONTRIBUTIONS AND SITE DEDICATION:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio:
      1.   The development of new subdivisions and planned developments
increases the demands upon the existing fire/rescue protection service provided
by the Village in a proportionate and ascertainable manner and create the need
for additional fire/rescue, firehouse and training sites. Studies reveal the
need to develop additional fire/rescue protection services. Therefore, as a
condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a final plat of a
planned development, each developer or subdivider shall be required to dedicate
land for fire/rescue facilities to serve the immediate and future needs of the
residents of the development or shall be required to make a cash contribution
in lieu of actual land dedication.
      2.   The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear directly
on the amount of land required for a fire/rescue site dedication. The Village
hereby finds that the total requirement shall be three (3) acres of land per
ten thousand (10,000) of ultimate population. This requirement is based upon a
review of available data as well as the respective fire protection district's
own internal examination of fire/rescue utilization and needs.
      3.   This contribution and/or dedication is based upon a review of
available data, studies and literature, including, but not limited to, the
requirements of surrounding communities. They shall be presumed to be correct
and accurate and shall be used in calculating cash contributions herein unless
timely objected to as provided herein. Objections to this section shall be made
in accordance with section
9-6-17 of this chapter. Failure to timely object to these requirements in
strict accordance with said section
9-6-17 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
      4.   The fire/rescue capital facilities contribution shall be held in
trust by the applicable fire protection district and shall be used for the
purpose of assisting in providing additional facilities for such fire
protection district purposes.
   B.   Location: The location of any new fire/rescue facility and/or training
site shall be determined by the appropriate fire protection district in
consultation with the Village. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-5: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING LIBRARY SITE DEDICATION:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio:
      1.   The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear directly
on the amount of land required for dedication. New development and increased
population create greater demands for adequate and efficient library services
to meet the educational, cultural and recreational needs of the citizenry. They
create the need for additional library facilities. The Village hereby finds
that the total requirement shall be two and one-half (2.5) acres of land per
ten thousand (10,000) of ultimate population.
      2.   These requirements are based upon a review of available data,
studies and literature on the subject, as well as the library district's own
internal examination of library utilization and needs. They shall be presumed
as the appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in calculating any
cash in lieu of land contribution herein unless timely objected to as provided
herein. Objections to these acreage requirements for any particular development
shall be made in accordance with section
9-6-17 of this chapter. Failure to timely object to these acreage requirements
in accordance with said section
9-6-17 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
   B.   Location: The location of any new library facility shall be determined
by the library after consultation with the Village. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-6: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING CASH CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Use Of Cash Contribution For Small Developments: When the development
is small and the resulting site is too small to be practical, or when the
available land is inappropriate for park and recreational purposes or school,
fire/rescue or library sites, or is in conflict with the approved comprehensive
school plan, the Village, with the concurrence of the affected district, shall
require the subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the
land dedication. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
   B.   Use Of Cash Contribution By School District: The cash contributions in
lieu of dedication of school sites shall be collected and held in trust by the
Village or other public body designated by the Village, and shall be used for
the acquisition of land for school sites to serve the immediate or future needs
of children from that subdivision or development, or for the improvement to any
existing school site that already serves such needs, or for the construction of
school buildings or additions thereto in accordance with Public Act 93-0330 1 ,
or for any purpose defined by agreement with the subdivider at the time of
platting. (Ord. 1150, 11-19-2008)
   C.   Use Of Cash Contribution By Park And Recreation: The cash contribution
in lieu of park and recreation land dedication shall be held in trust by the
Village and shall be used solely for the acquisition of park and recreation
land as classified above, which will be available to serve the immediate or
future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
expansion of other existing local park and recreation lands that already serve
such needs or for any other lawful park purpose or for any park purpose agreed
to by the subdivider or developer at the time of platting.
   D.   Use Of Cash Contribution By Library District: The cash contribution in
lieu of a library site dedication shall be held in trust by the applicable
library district or other public body as designated by the library district and
shall be used for the acquisition of library land as required herein, which
will be available to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of
that subdivision or development, or for the expansion of existing or proposed
library facilities that already serve or will serve such needs, or for any
other lawful purpose agreed to by the subdivider or developer at the time of
platting.
   E.   Use Of Cash Contribution By Fire Protection District: The cash
contribution in lieu of fire/rescue sites shall be held in trust by the
applicable fire protection district or other public body as designated by the
fire protection district and shall be used for the acquisition of land for
fire/rescue facilities or training sites to serve the immediate and future
needs of the residents of that subdivision or development, or for the expansion
of any other existing fire station or training site that already serves such
needs, or for any other lawful fire/rescue purpose agreed to by the subdivider
or developer at the time of platting. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
   F.   Refunds: If the Village Board takes formal action to declare that it
has no intention to expend any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of park
and recreation or fire/rescue land dedication or dedication of library and/or
school sites for the purposes set forth herein, it shall be refunded by the
entity holding the contribution to the record owner of the subdivided land at
the time of the refund, if there is more than one record owner of the
subdivided land or of the land that comprises the planned development, as
applicable, such record owners shall share in the refund pro rata based on the
cash contributions originally paid by each property. (Ord. 1346, 6-26-2019)
   G.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area that
otherwise would have been dedicated as park and recreation, library, fire/
rescue and school sites. The fair market value, on a per acre basis, shall
assume, unless determined otherwise pursuant to this chapter, that the land is
zoned in a One-Family Dwelling Residential Zoning District, subdivided with
appropriate frontage on a dedicated street or road, has all appropriate
utilities available, is improved as set forth herein, and is otherwise property
capable of being used for residential development. Based upon a study of
comparable real estate transactions, it has been determined that the present
"fair market value" of such improved land in and surrounding the Village is, as
of the effective date hereof, as follows:
      1.   Two hundred twenty two thousand six hundred dollars sixty four cents
($222,600.64) per acre for purposes of locating an elementary or junior high
school within School Districts 95 and 220, and a high school in School District
95.
      2.   Three hundred ninety seven thousand five hundred one dollars fifteen
cents ($397,501.15) per acre for purposes of locating a new high school or
adding on to the existing high school in School District 220.
      3.   One hundred eleven thousand three hundred dollars thirty two cents
($111,300.32) per acre for purposes of locating a park 2 .
      4.   Two hundred twenty two thousand six hundred dollars sixty four cents
($222,600.64) per acre for purposes of locating a fire station 3 .
      5.   Three hundred ninety seven thousand five hundred one dollars fifteen
cents ($397,501.15) per acre for purposes of locating and/or adding on to the
existing library 4 .
The above figures shall be adjusted by the Village Board from time to time with
appropriate study and documentation. The "fair market value", as defined above,
shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land dedication herein unless
timely objected to as provided in section
9-6-17 of this chapter. Objections to the fair market value as defined above
shall be made in accordance with said section
9-6-17 of this chapter to the Plan Commission. Failure to timely object to the
"fair market value", as defined above, in accordance with section
9-6-17 of this chapter shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection
at a later time. (Ord. 1150, 11-19-2008)
   H.   Combination Of Land Dedication And Cash Contribution: There will be
situations in subdivisions or planned developments when a combination of land
dedication and a cash contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when: 1) only a portion of the land to be developed is
proposed as the location for a library, park, fire/rescue or school site (that
portion of the land within the subdivision falling within the library, park,
fire/rescue or school location shall be dedicated as a site as stated above,
and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any additional
land that would have been required to be dedicated); or 2) a major part of the
local library, park, fire/rescue or school site has already been acquired by
the particular district or the Village, and only a small portion of land is
needed from the development to complete the site (the remaining portion shall
be required by dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof for the rest
of the required land shall be required). (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-5(7).
  1. Land suitable for park and recreational purposes may have a lesser value
2 depending upon location, buildability, and whether the site is used as an
  active or passive park site.
  2. Fire stations must be strategically located to maximize response time and
3 have access to major arterial roads. This fair market value reflects these
  considerations.
  1. An addition to the existing library would entail purchase of property
4 adjoining the existing library. A second library must be strategically
  located to accommodate the maximum number of patrons, and in the tradition of
  the existing library, be on a major thoroughfare.
9-6-7: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX:
The fair market value identified in section
9-6-6 of this chapter shall be subject to a "CPI adjustment" which shall be
calculated annually based on the most recent December to December change in CPI
and which adjustment shall go into effect on February 1, 2009, and on February
1 in each year thereafter or as soon thereafter as such data becomes available.
The CPI shall be based on the annual percentage change as published by the
United States department of labor's bureau of labor statistics consumer price
index for all urban consumers ("CPI-U") for the Chicago-Gary-Kenosha, IL-IN-WI
area (identification number CUURA207SA0). The index base period of 1982-
1984=100 shall be used. If the CPI or this particular regional designation is
changed, discontinued or replaced, such other governmental cost of living index
or computation that replaces the CPI shall be used in order to obtain
substantially the same result as would be obtained if the CPI had not been
discontinued or replaced. (Ord. 1150, 11-19-2008)
9-6-8: DENSITY FORMULA:
   A.   The table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, prepared
by Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.,
Naperville, Illinois, and as updated from time to time by the consulting firm
is contained in section
9-6-24, exhibit C, of this chapter. It constitutes projections of anticipated
population density and is generally indicative of current and short range
projected trends in family size for new construction and shall be used in
calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of land or the cash
contributions in lieu thereof, unless a written objection is filed thereto by
the subdivider or developer pursuant to section
9-6-17 of this chapter.
   B.   A "bedroom", as used in this section, shall mean any room, regardless
of its designation by the owner or permit applicant, which is suitable to be
used regularly as a room for sleeping, including, but not limited to, dens,
studies, bonus rooms, libraries, television rooms, sewing rooms and similar
rooms (all of which are hereafter referred to as "extra rooms"), whether
finished or unfinished, located on the bedroom level of a multi-story
residence. Extra rooms located on the nonbedroom level of a multi-story
residence shall be considered bedrooms if there is a bath on that level
containing a shower or tub. Extra rooms in a single-story residence shall
always be considered bedrooms. All such extra rooms shall be considered as
potential bedrooms and included as bedrooms for the purposes of determining the
required size of a septic seepage field of a residence.
   C.   The most recent version of the table of estimated ultimate population
per dwelling unit shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land
dedication herein unless objected to as provided in section
9-6-17 of this chapter. Objections to the table of estimated ultimate
population per dwelling unit shall be made in accordance with said section
9-6-17 to the Plan Commission. Failure to object to the table of estimated
ultimate population per dwelling unit in accordance with section
9-6-17 of this chapter shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection
at a later time.
   D.   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to the
table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit listed above, he shall
submit his own demographic study showing the estimated additional population to
be generated from the subdivision or planned development, and in that event,
final determination of the density formula shall be made in accordance with
section
9-6-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-9: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
When the comprehensive plan or the standards of the Village call for a larger
amount of park and recreational land or library or school sites in a particular
subdivision or planned development than the developer is required to dedicate
pursuant to this chapter, the land needed beyond the developer's dedication
shall be set aside and reserved by the developer for subsequent purchase by the
Village or applicable governmental unit (at a price determined at the time of
reservation) or other public body designated by the Village; provided, that
such acquisition is made within five (5) years from the date of approval of the
final plat. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-10: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where appropriate, a public open space or a school site that is to be dedicated
should, if possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining developments
in order to produce usable recreation areas and/or school sites without undue
hardship on a particular developer. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-11: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
   A.   The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purpose. Wetlands and
floodplains may be accepted for Village ownership and maintenance but shall not
serve as a credit toward the required park site dedication. Storm water
detention areas shall not be accepted for Village ownership and maintenance,
and the portion of a detention area designed to function primarily as a
component of the storm water control system shall not serve as a credit toward
the required park site dedication. A park site shall be not less than one acre
in area. The Village Board reserves the right, however, in its sole discretion,
to accept in whole or in part, certain areas such as, but not limited to, tree
massings, prairie remnants, high quality or unique wetlands, or other natural
features as all or part of the required park site dedication in furtherance of
open space preservation that may be unique to a given parcel or development.
Wetlands, floodplains, detention areas, retention areas and areas of steep
slope shall not be accepted as school, park, fire/rescue or library sites and
shall not serve as a credit toward the required school, park, fire/rescue or
library site cash contribution in lieu of land dedication.
   B.   In addition, the following site conditions and preparation standards
shall be met:
      1.   Slope:
         a.   Should not vary greatly in appearance from existing and adjacent
slopes;
         b.   Optimum slopes range from two percent (2%) minimum to five
percent (5%) maximum. No less than two percent (2%) slope is acceptable under
any circumstances;
         c.   Maximum allowable slope is ten percent (10%), except under
special conditions where greater slopes are desirable to enhance the use of the
site; and
         d.   On site drainage patterns shall be designated and constructed to:
            (1)   Ensure flow toward swales; and
            (2)   Ensure drainage away from active areas.
      2.   Grading:
         a.   Rough grading shall be completed at time of rough grading of
adjacent contiguous area;
         b.   Grading shall comply with Village approved plans;
         c.   Subgrade shall be graded and compacted so it will parallel
finished grade;
         d.   Subgrade material shall be loosened and fine graded to a depth of
two (2) to four inches (4"). All stones over four inches (4") in size, sticks,
debris, rubbish and other foreign substances shall be removed; and
         e.   Finished grades shall be uniform in slope between points for
which elevations have been established.
      3.   Soils:
         a.   Soils shall not differ from those naturally occurring;
         b.   Soils shall not offer any restriction to the ultimate use of the
property;
         c.   Topsoil shall be spread evenly and lightly compacted to a minimum
depth of six inches (6") over the entire site;
         d.   Topsoil must be good, friable soils with good tillage and shall
be without any admixture of subsoil, clay, gravel, stones, debris, refuse, sand
or other subsurface elements;
         e.   Topsoil shall not be placed in a muddy or frozen condition;
         f.   Topsoil shall contain no toxic substances which may be harmful to
plant growth; and
         g.   Topsoil shall be spread no later than the placement of topsoil on
the first lot adjacent to the site.
      4.   Seeding:
         a.   All proposed library, park and recreational and school sites
shall be seeded and an acceptable stand of grass or vegetation established
prior to dedication of the area to the Village;
         b.   Village approved ground covers and grasses shall be used for all
park and recreational areas suitable for the nature of the activity planned to
occur thereon;
         c.   Seeding shall be completed during the fall or spring planting
times, depending upon the recommended seed planting specifications;
         d.   Seeding shall be on moderately dry soil on a seed bed which will
easily accept and nurture germination of seeds;
         e.   Seeding shall be watered sufficiently so that the vegetation
becomes reasonably established; and
         f.   The developer shall be responsible for making necessary
reparations to the site caused by erosion or other damage. Reparations shall be
completed prior to acceptance of the site. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-12: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electricity, natural gas, telephone and cable television, and streets
(including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter, where applicable), as
applicable to the location of the site, and shall otherwise comply with the
requirements of the Village ordinances and codes. The landscaping normally
included within the definition of "improved" sites under said ordinances and
codes may be deleted due to the delay time between dedication of any such
school site and the construction of school facilities thereon, except for
ground cover as required in section
9-6-11 of this chapter. The site shall have direct access to a fully improved
street across at least twenty percent (20%) of the distance of its perimeter.
School and park sites should ideally be accessible by a bicycle/pedestrian
trail, and any such access route onto the property shall be at least twenty
five feet (25') wide. Such access routes should normally be dedications and not
easements, depending on which entity of government is to be responsible for
said routes. Any vehicular access route leading to or on the site shall be of
sufficient size and good geometry to properly accommodate vehicles that will
access and traverse the site, including, but not limited to, good principles of
traffic circulation, accommodation of one way and/or two way drives for school
buses, separation of bus traffic from passenger automobile traffic, bus dropoff
areas separate from publicly dedicated streets, guest and employee parking
areas, and the like. Such off street access routes, drives, dropoffs and
parking areas will not be dedicated rights of way and shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the site to maintain. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-13: ENVIRONMENTAL RISK AUDIT:
   A.   Prior to the conveyance of any land to the Village, library district,
fire protection district or school district, the intended grantee shall be
furnished with an environmental risk audit prepared by an environmental
professional meeting the minimum requirements of 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii), certified to and acceptable to the grantee, assuring the
grantee that there are no "hazardous substance(s)" (as defined hereinafter) on,
under, to or from the land. Said environmental audit shall be what is commonly
referred to as a phase I environmental audit, which shall meet the minimum
requirements for a preacquisition audit as set for in 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii)(v).
   B.   In the event the phase I environmental audit does not conclude there is
no presence or likely presence of a release or substantial threat of a release
of hazardous substance(s) or pesticide on, under, to or from the land, the
grantee shall furnish a phase II environmental audit as set forth in 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii)(vi), including a soil toxicity
analysis and recommendation from said environmental professional, meeting the
minimum requirements of 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii),
which concludes that there is no presence or likely presence of a release or
substantial threat of a release of hazardous substance(s) on, under, to or from
the land, and certifying that, in the judgment of said environmental
professional, there is no reasonable probability that the land contains any
hazardous substance(s) in violation of any federal or state environmental
standards.
   C.   In the event said phase II environmental audit and/or soil toxicity
analysis discloses the presence or likely presence of a release or a
substantial threat of a release of any hazardous substance(s) at, on, under, to
or from the land to the conveyed, the grantor shall first cause all such
hazardous substance(s) to be removed at its sole cost and expense in accordance
with all federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations and
furnish the intended grantee with a "no further remediation letter" from the
governmental agencies having jurisdiction over the cleanup prior to conveyance
of any of the land to the intended grantee.
   D.   Prior to the conveyance of the land, the subdivider or developer, as
the case may be, and the owner of the land to be conveyed, shall execute and
deliver to the intended grantee an environmental indemnification agreement,
which form has been approved by the Village Attorney, agreeing to defend,
indemnify and hold the Village, its corporate authorities, officers, officials,
employees, agents, successors and assigns, and the school district, as the case
may be, and its respective officers, officials, employees, agents, successors
and assigns, harmless from and against any and all liability, claims, damages,
causes of action and expenses arising out of the presence of any hazardous
substance(s) in, under or upon said land to be conveyed prior to the date of
conveyance.
   E.   "Hazardous substance(s)" includes, without limitation:
      1.   Those substances included in the definitions of "hazardous
substances", "extremely hazardous substances", "hazardous materials", "toxic
substances", "toxic chemicals", "toxic wastes", "hazardous chemicals",
"hazardous wastes", "solid waste" and "pesticides" in CERLA, SARA, RCRA, HSWA,
TSCA, OSHA, FWPCE, Illinois pesticides act (415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 60/
1 et seq.), Illinois responsible property transfer act (765 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 90/1 et seq.) and the Illinois hazardous materials transportation act
(430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq.), 49 USC section 1801 et seq., as
amended, and as they may be amended in the future, and in the regulations
promulgated pursuant to said laws.
      2.   Those substances defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1003
and in the regulations promulgated pursuant to said act or other Illinois laws
pertaining thereto.
      3.   Those substances listed in the U.S. department of transportation
table (49 CFR 172.101 and amendments thereto) or by the environmental
protection agency (or any successor agency) as hazardous substances (40 CFR
part 302 and amendments thereto).
      4.   Such other substances, materials and wastes which are to become
regulated under applicable local, state or federal law, or which are classified
as hazardous or toxic under federal, state or local laws, ordinances or
regulations.
      5.   Any material waste or substance which is: a) asbestos; b)
polychlorinated biphenols; c) designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to
section 311 of the clean water act, 33 USC section 1251 et seq. (33 USC sec.
1321), or listed pursuant to section 307 of the clean water act (33 USC sec.
1317); d) explosives; or e) radioactive materials.
      6.   For purposes of this section, "hazardous substances" shall include
petroleum or its byproducts as regulated under RCRA and any applicable state
law or regulations. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-14: SUITABILITY OF SOILS AT SITE:
The subdivider or developer, at its own cost or expense, shall provide to the
Village, library district, fire protection district or school district soil
boring data, soil compaction test results and such other engineering studies,
data and information pertaining to the proposed school, library, fire/rescue or
park and recreational site, which the Village, library district, fire
protection district or school district may request to enable the suitability of
the proposed land dedication for library, fire/rescue or school sites or park
and recreation purposes to be determined. The Village, library district, fire
protection district or school district shall have the right to reject any site
which the Village, library district, fire protection district or school
district determines, in accordance with sound engineering practices, is not
suitable for library site, fire/rescue site, park and recreational site or
school site purposes. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-15: TITLE INSURANCE; SURVEY; ASSESSMENT PLATS:
   A.   Each deed or other instrument conveying land to the Village, library
district, fire protection district or school district shall be accompanied by:
      1.   A written commitment issued by a title insurer licensed to do
business in the state to insure the grantee's title to such real estate in an
amount equal to the value computed pursuant to section
9-6-6 of this chapter, with extended coverage over the general exceptions to
title and subject only to:
         a.   Real estate taxes not yet due and payable;
         b.   Covenants, conditions and restrictions which do not prohibit the
use of the subject property for library, school or park and recreational use;
         c.   Utility easements located within twenty feet (20') of the
boundary lines of the subject real estate (except where approved on the final
engineering plans approved by the Village Engineer);
         d.   Drainage ditches, feeders and laterals;
         e.   Underground pipe or other conduit; and
         f.   Acts done or suffered by or judgments against the grantees.
      2.   A current ALTA boundary line survey, certified to the grantee by a
licensed Illinois land surveyor to be in compliance with the American land
survey standards, showing no encroachments; and
      3.   Except in instances where the real estate to be conveyed is a lot in
a recorded subdivision, an assessment plat and tax division petition in a form
acceptable to the appropriate Village authorities so the land to be conveyed
can be assigned its own permanent real estate index number (PIN) for exemption
purposes.
   B.   In addition, monuments must be established and the land staked
immediately prior to dedication of the property. The subdivider or developer
shall pay for the cost of the owner's title insurance in said amount, the ALTA
survey, the assessment plat and any and all costs in connection with the tax
division. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-16: REAL ESTATE TAX ESCROW:
The developer shall pay the general real estate taxes on the land not yet due
and payable as of the date of transfer, and shall deposit a sum of money in
escrow with the intended grantee's attorney or a title company licensed to do
business in the state of Illinois, which is prorated as of the date of transfer
on the basis of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the tax assessor's latest
assessed valuation, the latest known equalization factors and the latest known
tax rate on the land. In the event the previous tax information or the previous
tax bill includes other property, then the amount to be deposited in escrow
shall be adjusted ratably based on the net acreage of the land compared to the
net acreage of the other parcels covered by said tax bills. After the land has
been divided for real estate tax purposes and has been conveyed to the intended
grantee, the grantee shall proceed with due diligence to apply for a real
estate tax exemption on the land. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-17: OBJECTIONS:
All objections relating to acreage requirements, presumptions as to fair market
value, the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit or any
other application of this chapter to a particular subdivision or planned
development, shall first be referred to the Plan Commission for a hearing. An
objection must be made, if at all, prior to the approval of the final plat of
subdivision by the Village. A failure to object by such time shall constitute a
waiver of the right to object to the provisions of this chapter. The procedure
for a hearing before the Plan Commission shall be as follows:
   A.   Duties Of Plan Commission: The Plan Commission shall serve in an
advisory capacity and shall have the following duties:
      1.   Advise and assist the Village in resolving objections regarding the
table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit in section
9-6-24, exhibit C, of this chapter, the size of the school, park, fire/rescue
and library sites in sections
9-6-2,
9-6-3,
9-6-4 and
9-6-5, respectively, of this chapter, the fair market value of the land used to
calculate the cash contribution in subsection 9-6-6G of this chapter or any
other application of this chapter to a particular subdivision or planned
development.
      2.   The Village shall adopt procedural rules to be used by the Plan
Commission in carrying out the duties imposed by this section.
   B.   Information And Services To Be Used: The Village shall make available
to the Plan Commission all professional reports relating to the table of
estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, the size of the library, fire/
rescue, park and school sites and the fair market value of land used in
calculating these cash contributions. The Plan Commission may also retain the
services of professionals (attorneys, appraisers, statisticians, etc.) to
assist in its review of issues raised by any objection.
   C.   Procedure For Resolving An Objection:
      1.   Upon receipt of an objection, the Village Clerk shall place the same
on the next regular meeting agenda of the Village Board. Thereafter the Village
Board shall refer the objection to the Plan Commission which shall establish a
hearing date.
      2.   The Plan Commission shall provide public notice of the hearing date
to consider the objection and shall notify the Village Board and the affected
library, fire protection and school districts by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of the filing of the objection and of any hearing regarding same.
      3.   The objector shall publish notice of the hearing date once each week
for three (3) consecutive weeks, at least thirty (30) days before, but no more
than sixty (60) days before, the scheduled date of the hearing. Notice shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the corporate limits of
the Village. The notice of public hearing shall not appear in the part of the
paper where legal notices or classified ads appear. The notice shall not be
smaller than one-fourth (1/4) page of a standard size or tabloid size
newspaper. The objector shall send a copy of said notice to any person who has
requested said notice by certified mail (stamped at a U.S. postal service
facility showing the date of mailing) at least thirty (30) days prior to the
hearing date.
      4.   The notice shall contain all of the following information:
         a.   The heading shall read: "Notice of public hearing on objection to
application of ordinance requiring the dedication of park lands, library sites,
fire/rescue sites or school sites or payment of the cash contributions in lieu
thereof".
         b.   The date, time and location of the public hearing.
         c.   A statement that the purpose of the hearing is to consider the
objection to a component of the application of this chapter requiring the
dedication of park lands, library sites, school sites, or fire/rescue sites, or
calculation of cash in lieu thereof.
         d.   A general description of the parcel(s), service area or areas
within the Village that are the subject of the hearing.
         e.   A statement that the Village shall make available to the public,
upon request, an easily understandable and detailed map of the parcel(s),
service area or areas to which this chapter applies, and any other available
information about the objection.
         f.   A statement that any member of the public affected by this
chapter or the parcel(s) or service area shall have the right to appear at the
public hearing and present testimony and/or evidence in support of or against
the objection. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
      5.   A public hearing shall be held for the consideration of the
objection. In addition to the Village, any affected library district, school
district, and fire/rescue provider shall be allowed to participate in such
hearing as a party thereto to present evidence, cross examine witnesses and
make arguments to the Plan Commission regarding the issues raised in the
objection. The Plan Commission shall make a recommendation to adopt, reject in
whole or in part, or modify the objection presented at the hearing, by written
report to the Village, within sixty (60) days after the hearing. The Village
shall then have at least sixty (60) but not more than one hundred twenty (120)
days to approve, disapprove or modify, by ordinance, the findings in this
chapter as it pertains to the development in question.
      6.   The administrative review law 1  shall apply to any and all
challenges to this chapter and to any objections to or payments made under
protest for impact fees paid pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 1150, 11-19-2008)
   D.   Costs And Fees: The objector shall bear all costs of the hearing before
the Plan Commission, including, but not limited to, attendance fees paid the
Plan Commission members, publication costs, professional consultants and any
other expenses of the Village. Failure to promptly pay costs which are billed
shall be cause, at the option of the Village, to stay or defer any hearings,
meetings or actions by the Village. (Ord. 1036, 5-24-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
9-6-18: ANNEXATION OF LAND:
   A.   The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof required
by this chapter shall also be required as a condition to the annexation of any
land to the Village, and provisions therefor shall, at a minimum, be
incorporated in any annexation or preannexation agreement governing such land.
However, the Village reserves the right to negotiate dedications of land or
cash contributions in lieu of land or a combination thereof greater than those
set forth herein.
   B.   The Village recognizes the fact that developments may differ in their
impact upon a community. Consequently, the Village reserves the right to
negotiate dedications that are different from those contained in this chapter
when annexing property to the Village pursuant to an annexation agreement.
(Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-19: INDEMNIFICATION:
As a condition to the Village distributing land dedications and/or cash
contributions in lieu thereof, the appropriate district shall execute an
indemnification agreement in the form set forth in section
9-6-24, exhibit A, of this chapter. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-20: DISTRIBUTION:
The cash contribution in lieu of land dedication imposed by this chapter shall
be collected and held by the benefiting district to be used for the purposes
set forth in this chapter. As a condition of distribution of these land
dedications and/or cash contributions in lieu of land dedications, the Village
shall require that the school district, library district, or fire/rescue
provider benefiting from such land dedications and/or cash contributions
conduct a needs assessment and adopt a plan for acquisition of land and capital
facilities needed to accommodate growth. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-21: NEEDS ASSESSMENT; LAND AND CAPITAL FACILITIES ACQUISITION PLAN:
   A.   A needs assessment shall contain the following information for each
benefiting district:
      1.   A description of the nature and location of existing park, library,
fire/rescue and school lands and existing park, school, library, fire/rescue
facility and capital facilities within each district.
      2.   An identification of the capacity of each school building, fire/
rescue facility, library facility or park site within the particular district
and of the number of students then enrolled in each school building.
      3.   A projection of the character and location of new development that
is expected to occur within each district or Village during the succeeding ten
(10) year period. The district or Village may obtain the information necessary
to make this projection from sources such as, but not limited to:
municipalities, other units of government, agencies and consultants.
      4.   An identification of the amount of lands that will be necessary
within the school district and Village in order to accommodate the demands of
such projected new development, and an estimate of the public grounds
acquisition costs that will be incurred or have been incurred by each district
in acquiring such lands.
      5.   A general description of each classification of capital facilities
(including construction, expansion or enhancement of any public facilities and
the land improvement, design, engineering and professional costs related
thereto) that will be necessary within each district in order to provide
adequate capacity for the projected new development, and an estimate of the
capital facilities costs that will be incurred by each district in constructing
such capital facilities.
   B.   Based upon the needs assessment, the school district, fire/rescue
district or library district shall provide the Village an acquisition plan for
lands and capital facilities. This acquisition plan shall:
      1.   Project for a planning period of at least five (5) years, the need
for lands and capital facilities within the district or Village;
      2.   Set forth a schedule for the acquisition of such lands and
facilities to meet the projected need (which schedule may be conditioned upon
the availability of financing);
      3.   Indicate the size and general location of the needed lands and
facilities;
      4.   Identify the estimated or incurred costs of acquiring such needed
lands and facilities;
      5.   Set forth the anticipated funding sources for the acquisition of
such needed lands and facilities;
      6.   Determine the feasibility of acquiring the needed land and
facilities based upon the district's current financial condition;
      7.   Determine the feasibility of acquiring the needed land and
facilities based upon the district's or Village's estimate of the revenues
(including, without limitation, cash in lieu of land dedication required by
this section) pursuant to the plan.
      8.   The impact on property taxes in the Village assuming the plan is
implemented.
   C.   If the Village deems it necessary, it may require an updated needs
assessment and plan for acquisition of land and capital facilities from the
district annually. The failure to require said assessment update shall not
invalidate the requirements of this section. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-22: TIME OF PAYMENT:
   A.   All land dedications and cash contributions imposed by this chapter
shall be due and payable upon final plat approval. However, the Village may
agree that the payment of the cash contributions may be made at the time of
building permit issuance in consideration of which the subdivider or developer
shall execute an agreement, which is exhibit B in section
9-6-24 of this chapter, agreeing that the cash contributions payable will be
adjusted in accordance with the requirements herein and further agreeing that
the cash contributions may be expended for the purposes described in said
exhibit B.
   B.   In calculating the fee at the time of platting, the Village will assume
the maximum density permitted under the zoning classification approved pursuant
to the table set forth as exhibit C of section
9-6-24 of this chapter. For example, if the subdivision in question is zoned
single-family, the Village will assume, for purposes of calculating fees
payable, pursuant to this chapter, that all houses will have five (5) bedrooms.
The Village will then hold sufficient funds pending issuance of the building
permit to enable it to refund any overpayments resulting from the fact that
houses with less than five (5) bedrooms are constructed. Refunds shall be made
at time of issuance of the building permit.
   C.   The Village may agree that payment of fees be made at the time of
building permit issuance in consideration of which the subdivider or developer
shall execute the agreement, which is exhibit B of section
9-6-24 of this chapter, agreeing that the fees payable will be adjusted in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and further agreeing that the
fees may be expended for the purposes described in said exhibit B. In the event
the Village agrees to delay the payment of the fees required under this section
to the time of building permit issuance, the cash contributions owed shall be
based upon this chapter or as provided in such future ordinances amending or
replacing this chapter (derived from ordinance 915), which is in effect at the
time the building permit is issued. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-23: CALCULATING CASH CONTRIBUTIONS:
In calculating any cash contributions in lieu of land dedication payable at
time of issuance of building permit as provided in this chapter, the Village
shall use the fair market value as set forth in subsection 9-6-6G, or any
amendment thereto, and in effect at the time of the contribution and building
permit issuance. (Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
9-6-24: EXHIBITS:
(See following page for exhibits.)
EXHIBIT A
AGREEMENT REGARDING THE RECEIPT
OF DEVELOPER SUBDIVISION CONTRIBUTIONS
AND INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, the Village of North Barrington, Illinois, on behalf of itself, its
officers, employees and independent contractors (the "Village"), through its
ordinances or through the provisions of its annexation agreements has required
that developers make contributions to the Village, that the Village, in turn,
may make these contributions available for itself and/or for other government
bodies that are affected by the subdivision improvements; and
WHEREAS, such contributions may be in land or in money and, when transferred or
paid over to those government bodies, inure in part to the benefit of those
government bodies and not entirely to the direct benefit of the Village; and
WHEREAS, from time to time within the Village, and within other municipalities,
disputes have arisen regarding the validity and amount of such contributions;
and
WHEREAS, the Village is willing, at its discretion, to continue seeking the
contribution of land or money but wishes to procure a commitment from other
government bodies benefited by the receipt of such contributions that those
government bodies will (a) acknowledge that the requirement that such
subdivision contributions be made are totally within the discretion of the
Village as to their existence, manner and amount; (b) pay the cost of defending
any lawsuit that is filed challenging the appropriate amount of the
contributions, the time at which they are to be made or any other aspect of the
contributions; and (c) comply with the terms of a final and nonappealable
judicial determination by a court of competent jurisdiction rendered in
connection with the lawsuit; and
WHEREAS, the Village is willing, in its discretion, to pay over or require
contributions only to other government bodies that execute this agreement
("Agreement");
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the payment of money or the transfer of
the land to the Benefiting Government, which the Village from time to time may,
within its discretion, cause to be made by developers that are subdividing
property, it is agreed between the Village, on behalf of itself and its
officers, employees and independent contractors, and                      , a
government body within the State of Illinois (the "Benefiting Government"), as
follows:
      1.   The Benefiting Government acknowledges that, except as otherwise
provided in the Village's ordinances and/or annexation agreements, the Village
is not obligated to cause the payment of money or the transfer of land to the
Benefiting Government. The Benefiting Government recognizes that the Village
may, at its sole discretion, amend its ordinances or annexation agreements or
its practices to discontinue the payment of subdivision contributions to the
Benefiting Government.
      2.   Legal Representation
   A. In the event a lawsuit is filed against the Village, the Benefiting
Government, and/or others by a developer that is subdividing property or any
other person, corporation or entity that challenges the appropriateness,
amount, timing or any other aspect of a subdivision contribution that, pursuant
to the terms of the Village's ordinances or annexation agreements, has been
paid or is due to the Benefiting Government, then the Benefiting Government
does agree to pay the costs and litigation expenses (including reasonable
attorneys' fees) incurred by the Village in defending such lawsuit. The costs
and expenses shall be paid by the Benefiting Government when and as incurred by
the Village but in no event more than once a month. As a condition precedent to
the payment of these costs and expenses, the Village shall submit to the
Benefiting Government copies of the original statements reflecting the costs
and expenses, together with the non-privileged supporting documentation that
may be reasonably requested by the Benefiting Government.
   B. The Village covenants and agrees that it shall employ competent and
skilled legal counsel to represent the Benefiting Government and the Village,
and further covenants and agrees that it shall keep the Benefiting Government
fully advised as to the progress and status of the litigation. In particular,
the Village shall provide to the Benefiting Government copies of all pleadings
filed in the litigation and shall consult regularly (and shall cause its
attorneys to consult regularly) with the Benefiting Government or its
attorneys, as applicable, as to the strategy for defending the lawsuit. In no
event may such litigation be compromised or settled by the Village without at
least 30 days' prior written notice to the Benefiting Government.
   C. In the event that the Benefiting Government decides that it would prefer
to be represented in the litigation by legal counsel of its own choosing, then
the Benefiting Government shall be free to retain its own legal counsel for
that purpose and to intervene in the litigation and to ask the Village to
terminate its representation of the Benefiting Government under this Agreement.
The Benefiting Government shall notify the Village, in writing, to that effect.
In that event, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect regarding
all of the provisions of this Agreement, and the Benefiting Government shall
remain liable to the Village for all sums that have accrued under this
agreement up until the date that such written notice is received and for all
sums that remain due and owing from the Benefiting Government to the Village
relating to the defense of any lawsuit under the terms of this Agreement.
      3.   The Benefiting Government shall further indemnify and hold harmless
the Village from any and all liability arising from the Subdivision Code of the
Village, including but not limited to, the general administration and handling
of funds required by the Village and the Benefiting Government.
      4.   In the event that a final and nonappealable judicial determination
is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that contributions of land or
money received by the Benefiting Government are, in whole or in part,
excessive, the Benefiting Government shall promptly repay those contributions
to the person who procures such a judgment, together with all other amounts
judged by the court to be owing from the Benefiting Government. In the event a
judicial determination should require the payment of damages or payment of the
attorneys' fees of the plaintiff's attorneys, the Benefiting Government shall
pay all additional amounts.
      5.   In further consideration of the continued payment by the Village to
the Benefiting Government of the subject contributions of land or money, the
Benefiting Government agrees that its obligations under this Agreement shall
extend to both past and future cash and land contributions.
      6.   On or before June 1st of each year, every Benefiting Government that
receives payments from the Village under this Agreement shall submit a report
to the Village describing the manner in which the payments have been used and
provide any additional information the Village may require. When that money
turned over to the Benefiting Government is to be used for a specific purpose
or within a specific time period, the report shall address those issues. If the
Benefiting Government should fail to file such a report with the Village, the
Village may delay the payment of any additional funds due the Benefiting
Government until such time as a full report containing adequate information is
transmitted to the Village. The Benefiting Government understands that it will
be asked to execute an indemnity agreement similar to this Agreement on an
annual basis and that the Village shall not pay any additional funds due to the
Benefiting Government until such time as the Village is in receipt of such
annually executed indemnity agreement.
      7.   This Agreement shall be terminable by either party for any reason or
no reason at all upon 30 days' prior written notice to the other party
evidencing the intention to so terminate this Agreement. But the termination of
this Agreement shall not affect the continuing obligation of the Benefiting
Government or the Village with regard to claims or damages allegedly arising
out of the Village's efforts prior to termination to impose, collect or
distribute contributions, or to the actual distribution of subdivision
contributions.
DATED this       day of                ,           .
Village of North Barrington   Benefiting Government:
Village President   Title:                         
(SEAL)   (SEAL)
ATTEST:   ATTEST:
Village Clerk   Secretary
EXHIBIT B
AGREEMENT
This agreement ("Agreement") is entered into between the Village of North
Barrington ("Village") and                          , ("Developer").
WHEREAS, the Village has approved a final plat of subdivision or a final plat
of a planned development at the request of Developer for the real estate
legally described in Exhibit B.1 attached hereto and made a part hereof (the
"Land"). Accordingly, pursuant to the Village's Subdivision Code, certain cash
contributions for library, fire/rescue, park and recreation, and school lands
are immediately due the Village from the Developer; and
WHEREAS, Developer has, however, requested that the payment of the aforesaid
cash contributions be delayed and that the same become due and payable on a per
dwelling unit basis at the time the Village issues a building permit for the
particular dwelling unit.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration for the Village agreeing to delay its receipt
of the cash contributions, Developer hereby agrees as follows:
      1.   The amount of cash contributions owed shall be calculated based upon
Ordinance No.                or as provided for in such other future ordinance
amending or replacing Ordinance No.             which is in effect at the time
of the issuance of a building permit; and
      2.   Notwithstanding any present or future law, regulation and/or legal
precedent to the contrary, the unit of local government that is the ultimate
recipient of the subject cash contributions may expend such contributions for
any of the following purposes intended to serve immediate or future needs of
the residents and children of the Developer's subdivision or planned
development: (a) for the acquisition of land; (b) for site improvements such
as, by way of example, streets, curbs, gutters, stormwater control, and utility
extensions; (c) for construction of capital facilities, including, by way of
example, new buildings and structures, and the expansion or enhancement of
existing buildings and structures; and (d) for so-called soft costs directly
related to the foregoing items (b) or (c) such as architectural and engineering
costs.
      3.   Developer has reviewed Section             of the Ordinance
regarding the dedication of school sites or cash contributions in lieu thereof,
as well as all of the methodology, formulae, calculations, projections,
assumptions, numbers and other factors used to arrive at the land dedication
requirements or cash contributions in lieu thereof that are the subject of this
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "Ordinance and Attendant
Calculations") and hereby acknowledges and agrees that:
               (a) Pursuant to the terms of the Ordinance, Developer has been
offered the opportunity to raise in a hearing before the Village, any
objections relating to acreage requirements, presumptions as to fair market
value, the Table of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit, or any
other application of the Ordinance; Developer has not raised such objections;
Developer has thereby waived the right to assert those objections.
               (b) Developer hereby waives any future right to object to or to
institute any legal action regarding Ordinance and Attendant Calculations.
               (c) Developer hereby acknowledges that Ordinance and Attendant
Calculations have been properly passed, calculated and imposed.
      4.   This Agreement constitutes a covenant that is appurtenant to and
runs with the Land. Either this Agreement or a memorandum thereof may be
recorded against legal title to the Land by either party hereto; provided,
however, it shall be a condition of the Village's issuance of the first
building permit for a dwelling unit on the Land that Developer shall provide
satisfactory evidence to the Village that this Agreement or a memorandum
thereof has been recorded against legal title to the Land.
      5.   Developer represents and warrants to the Village that it is the sole
holder of record fee title to the Land.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Village and the developer have caused this agreement to
be duly authorized, executed and entered into as of the       day of
               ,           .
Village PresidentDeveloper
ATTEST:
                                                  
Village Clerk
(Ord. 1036, 5-24-2004)
EXHIBIT C
TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE SCHOOL POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
Children Per Unit
                                      Middle             High
                                      Grades TotalGrades School Adults Total
  Type Of Preschool ElementaryGrades 6-     K-8 5-13    Grades 18     Per
Unit       0-4 Years K-5 5-10 Years   8 11-  Years       9-12   Years  Dwelling
                                      13                 14-17  +      Unit
                                      Years              Years
                                      Middle             High
                                      Grades TotalGrades School Adults Total
  Type Of Preschool ElementaryGrades 6-     K-8 5-13    Grades 18     Per
Unit       0-4 Years K-5 5-10 Years   8 11-  Years       9-12   Years  Dwelling
                                      13                 14-17  +      Unit
                                      Years              Years
Detached Single-Family:
2-bedroom  0.113     0.136            0.048  0.184       0.020  1.700  2.017
3-bedroom  0.292     0.369            0.173  0.542       0.184  1.881  2.899
4-bedroom  0.418     0.530            0.298  0.828       0.360  2.158  3.764
5-bedroom  0.283     0.345            0.248  0.583       0.300  2.594  3.770
Attached Single-Family:
1-bedroom  0.000     0.000            0.000  0.000       0.000  1.193  1.193
2-bedroom  0.064     0.088            0.048  0.136       0.038  1.752  1.990
3-bedroom  0.212     0.234            0.058  0.292       0.059  1.829  2.392
4-bedroom  0.323     0.322            0.154  0.476       0.173  2.173  3.145
Apartments:
Efficiency 0.000     0.000            0.000  0.000       0.000  1.294  1.294
1-bedroom  0.000     0.002            0.001  0.003       0.001  1.754  1.758
2-bedroom  0.047     0.086            0.042  0.128       0.046  1.693  1.914
3-bedroom  0.052     0.234            0.123  0.357       0.118  2.526  3.053
 
(Ord. 915, 2-13-2003)
ZONING REGULATIONS
of
NORTH BARRINGTON, ILLINOIS
2004
Contain ordinances up to and including ordinance 1336, passed October 24, 2018
PREFACE
These zoning regulations of the Village of North Barrington, as supplemented,
contain ordinances up to and including ordinance 1336, passed October 24, 2018.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of these zoning regulations to the extent that they are in conflict or
inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village office in order to ascertain
whether any particular provision of these regulations has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Findings
10-1-2: Scope Of Regulations
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Validity
10-1-1: FINDINGS:
The corporate authorities find that:
   A.   There are no public sewers, no sewage disposal systems, and no
provisions for the same, to serve any portions of the Village other than the
Wynstone subdivision which has a self-contained system;
   B.   The soil conditions prevailing in the Village repeatedly have led to
sewage disposal problems by the use of individual sewage disposal systems
(septic systems) on small lots, particularly on lots of less than forty
thousand (40,000) square feet in area, presenting a serious hazard to the
health and welfare of the residents of the Village and surrounding areas; and
   C.   Said sewage disposal problems are increased by additional sewage
disposal systems on lots of less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet in
area in proximity to the other lots having individual sewage disposal systems
(septic systems). (1977 Code § ZR-1-1)
10-1-2: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the Village to do, conduct
or allow any of the following except as provided by this title and after
obtaining written permission from the enforcing officer:
   A.   To establish any use of a building, structure or land, either by itself
or in addition to another use.
   B.   To expand, change or reestablish any nonconforming use.
   C.   To excavate for any lake, pond, swimming pool, building, foundation,
sewer, water conduit, well, septic tank, grease trap, disposal field or drain.
   D.   To alter, redirect or materially change the course of any creek, river
or stream.
   E.   To erect, construct, alter, add to or move any building, structure or
part thereof, or install any new siding. (1977 Code § ZR-1-2)
   F.   To erect fences except as permitted pursuant to chapter 11 of this
title, as said chapter may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 1064, 7-25-2005)
   G.   To rebuild, structurally alter, add to or relocate any building or
structure or part thereof. (1977 Code § ZR-1-2)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The provisions of this title shall be held to be
the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
morals, comfort and general welfare.
   B.   Nonconflicting Provisions: It is not intended by this title to
interfere with, abrogate, annul or repeal any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation heretofore adopted which does not conflict with the provisions of
this title.
   C.   Conflicting, More Restrictive Provisions: This title shall not nullify
the more restrictive provisions of covenants, agreements, resolutions, other
ordinances, this code or other laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive. (1977 Code § ZR-1-3)
10-1-4: VALIDITY:
Should any section, clause or provision of this title be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of this title as a whole, or any part hereof, other than the part so
declared to be invalid. (1977 Code § ZR-1-11)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions And Word Construction
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS AND WORD CONSTRUCTION:
Certain terms and words are hereby defined. Words used in the present tense
shall include the future; the singular shall include the plural and the plural
the singular; the word "building" shall include the word "structure"; the word
"shall" is mandatory and not directory.
ACCESSORY AGRICULTURAL USES TO EQUESTRIAN USES: For properties which have a
primary intended use and are actively using the property for equestrian uses,
the following accessory uses are also permitted: Agricultural/farm use of land
and buildings and structures for the purpose of: a) growing and harvesting of
hay, grain and similar crops and growing and harvesting of plants, trees and/or
forestry activities and/or b) feeding, breeding, keeping, raising and
management of livestock, poultry and farm animals as otherwise permitted by the
Village Code.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A. One which:
       1. Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
       2. Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of
the principal building and principal use served;
       3. Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use; and
       4. The exterior of which is clad in wood, stucco or brick only, except
for greenhouses, and therefore, any metal or plastic exterior materials on an
accessory structure are prohibited.
   B. "Accessory structures" include, but are not limited to:
Barns
Children's playhouses
Domestic storage
Garden houses
Gazebos
Greenhouses
Playground equipment
Sheds
   C. These structures, except barns, shall not exceed one story in height,
with a maximum building height of fifteen feet (15'), and not to exceed two
hundred fifty (250) square feet in area; barns shall not exceed seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet in size.
ACCESSORY VEHICULAR STORAGE STRUCTURE: A. Includes, but is not limited to,
structures for storage of:
All-terrain vehicles
Boats
Buses
Cars
Go-carts
Golf carts
Jet skis
Motor homes
Motorcycles
Snowmobiles
Tent campers
Tractors
Travel trailers
Truck trailers
   B. These structures shall have a maximum building height of fifteen feet
(15'), with a maximum area of seven hundred fifty (750) square feet.
ACRE: An acre of land is forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560)
square feet.
ANTENNA: Any tower, dish or other structure or device, any part of which
structure is used for transmitting or receiving RF (radio frequency) signals.
   A. No antenna shall exceed the height limitation for structures within the
zoning district within which it is located; provided, however, that as to
antennas owned and operated by amateur radio operators holding valid federal
communications station licenses ("amateur radio antennas") (but only during
such time as such license remains in effect and while said antenna is owned and
operated by such licensee), the highest point of any part of such ground based
antennas shall not exceed sixty five feet (65') from the ground level at the
point of installation, or if roof mounted, fifteen feet (15') above the highest
point of any building upon which it is located, except that nondirectional
antennas may be twenty five feet (25') above such highest point.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, ground based antennas, as part of cellular,
personal communications services (PCS) and other wireless telecommunications
service facilities (hereinafter called "cellular") shall not exceed two hundred
feet (200') in height from the ground level at the point of installation.
   B. The following apply to all ground based or roof mounted antennas, except
cellular, unless a variance is obtained for such use pursuant to the provisions
of this code:
         1. No ground based antenna shall be installed in the front yard of any
residential building located on the property, and no roof mounted antenna shall
be on a wall, side or roof of a building which faces the front yard of the
property.
         2. No ground based antenna shall be installed within one hundred feet
(100') of wetlands, prairies, streams or other areas of environmental concern
as otherwise provided by this code.
         3. No ground based antenna and no roof mounted antenna shall be
installed closer than the length of the antenna plus ten feet (10') to any
overhead wires or power lines.
   C.   In the event a variation is applied for from the provisions of this
definition, the Zoning Board of Appeals and the corporate authorities shall
conduct an analysis pursuant to the standards of the federal communications
commission (FCC) rules and guidelines and pursuant to state law. The analysis
shall balance the interest of the FCC in promoting amateur operations and the
legitimate interests of the Village. In considering the application, the Zoning
Board of Appeals and, subsequently, the Board of Trustees shall make factual
finding based on the following criteria and, where appropriate, attempt to
negotiate a satisfactory solution with the applicant and other interested
property owners:
         1. Compliance with the minimum zoning requirements of the zoning
district in which the use is to be established, and with all other applicable
requirements.
        2. Harmony with the character of the neighborhood and compatible with
the surrounding area.
         3. Consistency with the Village's comprehensive plan.
         4. Consideration of the aesthetic and environmental quality of the
Village as to location, design or upgrading of the antenna so as to minimize
any significant impacts, with all possible alternative locations being
considered.
        5. Consolidation of multiple communication facilities onto common
towers, when feasible and not otherwise detrimental, is encouraged.
        6. Consideration of issues of an over intensive use of land or
depletion of natural resources.
       7. Consideration of traffic hazards.
        8. Consideration of any significant air, odor, water or noise
pollution.
        9. Consideration that the antenna be painted, landscaped, buffered and
screened in order to cause the least possible impact to the neighborhood.
       10. Considerations that the antenna will not otherwise be detrimental to
the health, safety or welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the
Village.
         11. That reasonable consideration has been given to alternative sites
and/or designs and the proposal is the most acceptable alternate to the Village
(i.e., are there other locations in the area where proposed tower of this
height would be more compatible and could be approved?).
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING: No artificial lighting may be installed on golf courses,
tennis courts or other outdoor recreational facilities other than security
lighting necessary for the safety and protection of persons and property;
except, that the Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend to the Board of Trustees
a variation to provide for artificial lighting for recreational facilities for
property zoned golf course and club, and the variation may be limited as deemed
advisable, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees.
BASEMENT: A story having part but not less than two-thirds (2/3) of its height
below grade. A "basement" shall not be counted as a story for the purposes of
height regulation.
BOAT: A vessel of any dimension designed and constructed for water travel by
one or more persons, whether engine, sail or paddle propelled.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance, as measured from the predevelopment
grade of a property, to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to
the deck line of a mansard roof, or the mean height level between eaves and
ridge, for gable, hip and gambrel roofs. Chimneys and stack pipes are excluded
in determining the height of the building.
BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground, including, but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, backstops for
tennis courts, pergolas, swimming pools, radio and television receiving and
transmission towers or antennas (including antennas for home television and
radio receiving sets).
BUS: A motorized vehicle designed to be used for the transportation of ten (10)
passengers or more.
CAMPER TRAILER: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis of metal
welded unit body with the superstructure made in part or in whole of canvas and
metal frame which is used for camping or recreation.
DISTRICTS: A section or sections of the Village of North Barrington for which
the regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of
buildings, the size of yards and the intensity of use are uniform.
EQUESTRIAN USES: The following uses involving or relating to horses and ponies,
whether the uses are for the exclusive use of the property owner or made
available for hire to others:
Boarding
Exercising
Grooming
Riding lessons
Stabling
FAMILY: Excepting domestic employees, any number of persons related by blood,
marriage or operation of law, or not to exceed one person not so related,
living together in a room or rooms comprising a single housekeeping unit.
GOLF COURSE: A tract of land intended for playing golf, including fairways,
greens, tees and rough, of not less than one hundred (100) acres. Clubhouses
and other accessory buildings incidental to the operation of a golf course, as
well as tennis courts, may be located on a golf course, providing their
location, construction and use comply with all other ordinances and this code.
No other outdoor game or related activity shall be allowed at a golf course.
HAULER TRAILERS: A vehicular, portable structure for utility or recreational
use, built on a chassis with or without superstructure, made in part or whole
of plastic, wood or canvas and metal frame except for conveyance type equipment
required for routine site maintenance.
HOME OCCUPATIONS: A business, service or profession carried on only within the
dwelling by members of the immediate family, residing therein; providing, that
no article is sold or offered for sale on the premises other than occasional
sales which do not create unusual traffic or congestions. Studios of artists
and sculptors are deemed "home occupations" if they otherwise qualify under the
preceding sentence, but clinics, doctors' offices, hospitals, nursing homes,
barbershops, beauty parlors, dress shops, millinery shops, tearooms,
restaurants, tourist homes, animal hospitals and kennels, nurseries,
landscapers, lawn care services, lawn maintenance, among others, shall not be
deemed to be "home occupations".
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any automobile, truck, motorbike, motorcycle, recreational
vehicle or any other motor vehicle which, for mechanical or physical reasons,
is not capable of normal operation and mobility.
LOT COVERAGE RATIO: The ratio (sometimes herein "LCR"), expressed as a
percentage, of the total area of building footprint, dog runs, swimming pools
and immediate appurtenances to swimming pools as required by the Village code,
tennis courts and other accessory structures, to the lot size; provided
however, that any portions of dog runs and tennis courts which are constructed
of materials which the Zoning Board of Appeals determines allow absorption of
water so as to prevent significant runoff shall not be included in calculating
such ratio of lot coverage. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall make such
determination, or decline to do so, on the application of the property owner or
the agent of such owner at a public meeting but without the requirement of
public hearing and without mailed or published legal notice being required. The
determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be final. Every
determination to consider certain materials permeable shall be by resolution of
the Zoning Board of Appeals which shall be recorded in the office of the
Recorder of Lake County. The calculation of LCR shall be pursuant to subsection
10-6-1C, 10-6-2C or 10-6-3C of this title, as may be applicable.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front lot line shall be the line which abuts the street
right of way, alley or private easement for ingress or egress. In order to
determine the lot width at the front lot line on a corner lot of a public
street, the shorter of the lot lines shall be designated as the front lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which was a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds, or a parcel of land
created by a deed so recorded, both prior to the date of the adoption of the
original zoning ordinance of the Village, or any lot or parcel thereafter
recorded which conformed to this zoning ordinance of the Village when so
recorded.
MOBILE HOME: A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed
as to permit its transport from the place of its construction to the location
or subsequent location at which it is intended to be a permanent home and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. Even if such structure rests on a permanent foundation, with wheels,
tongue, hitch and axle or lug permanently removed, it shall be construed as a
"mobile home". A "mobile home" may be with or without mechanical power.
MODULAR MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling manufactured off site which complies with
the provisions of the international residential code.
MOTORIZED HOME: A motorized vehicle (portable) designed and constructed for
either occasional or continuous habitation or commercial use of sixteen feet
(16') or more in length.
NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any use, building or structure
lawfully existing at the time of passage of the original zoning ordinance of
the village or any amendment thereto, or located in any territory heretofore or
hereafter annexed, which does not conform to the use regulations of the
district in which it is situated as such use regulations are prescribed by this
zoning ordinance and amendments thereto.
PICKUP COACH: A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a pickup or truck
chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for use as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation uses.
PREDEVELOPMENT GRADE: The highest point of the ground which is located within
two feet (2') of any portion of the proposed foundation or which is located
adjacent to the foundation, whichever is lower. "Ground" means the elevation of
the land at the location of the proposed building or structure as it existed at
the time of creation of the subdivision in which it is located, if known, or as
it existed one year prior to the date of application for a building permit,
whichever is earlier.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle or other similar facility used primarily for
recreational purposes or licensed as such by the secretary of state. Such a
vehicle includes, but is not limited to, travel trailer, pickup coach, camper
trailer, and motorized home. Included in this classification are all vehicles
registered in another state which, if titled in this state, would qualify for
such recreational plates.
ROAD OR STREET: Property dedicated or acquired for public use and all dedicated
easements, including alleys, intended for travel by persons or vehicles.
SHORT TERM RENTALS: The rental of a residence or part thereof to one or more
persons who are not related to one of the owners of the residence by blood or
marriage or adoption pursuant to a verbal or written agreement, for a period of
less than ninety three (93) consecutive days.
SOLAR COLLECTION DEVICE: Any device designed to collect solar rays and convert
said rays into energy designed for heating or electrical use.
A. "Solar collection devices" shall be permitted if they are built into the
roof or wall surface and do not project beyond the building plane which the
building would have without such collection device.
B. Devices not meeting this requirement may be allowed, provided said
installation is at ground level and totally shielded from view of other
properties and public streets. Such shielding may be provided by the residence
on the property, fencing which meets the requirements of all ordinances,
garages, storage buildings which meet the requirements of all ordinances, or
landscaping and plantings where such landscaping and plantings provide a year
round shielding.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial
change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building Or Structure.
TRAILER: A vehicular, portable structure designed or used for the storage or
transporting of materials or a nonself-propelled wheeled vehicle that is towed
or pulled and equipped to serve wherever parked as a dwelling, place of
business or for the storage or transporting of materials.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular, portable, nonmotorized structure built on a
chassis and designed to be used as a temporary habitation during travel,
recreational, vacation or commercial use.
TRUCK: A motorized vehicle designed and constructed for the transportation of
goods, materials and items other than passengers. (1977 Code § ZR-2-1; amd.
Ord. 874, 9-24-2001; Ord. 913, 3-31-2003; Ord. 1001, 4-28-2003; Ord. 1073, 5-
24-2006; Ord. 1104, 8-23-2006; Ord. 1165, 9-30-2009; Ord. 1292, 9-28-2016; Ord.
1336, 10-24-2018)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Classification Of Districts
10-3-2: Zoning Map
10-3-3: Zoning Of Annexed Land
10-3-4: Official Records
10-3-5: Prohibition On Determining Lot Size
10-3-1: CLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICTS:
For the purposes of this title, all land lying within the limits of the Village
is hereby divided into the following districts, listed and designated as
follows:
R-1 district: Five (5) acre residential tracts
R-2 district: Two (2) acre residential tracts
R-3 district: Forty thousand (40,000) square feet residential tracts
C district: Golf courses and club
O and R district: Office and research
B-1 district: Business
B-2 district: Business
B-3 district: Planned premier retail
Regular golf course district
Premier golf course district
Premier equestrian estate district
(Ord. 1165, 9-30-2009)
10-3-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of such districts are hereby established as shown on the zoning
map consisting of one page, which map accompanies the zoning ordinance and is
hereby made a part of this title by reference. (1977 Code § ZR-3-2)
10-3-3: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Any territory hereafter annexed to the Village shown on the official
comprehensive plan shall automatically, upon such annexation, be classified in
accordance with said plan and subject to all rules, regulations and conditions
applicable to such area. (1977 Code § ZR-3-2)
10-3-4: OFFICIAL RECORDS:
The zoning map and the official comprehensive plan, as adopted, are a part of
the official records in the office of the Village Clerk. (1977 Code § ZR-3-2)
10-3-5: PROHIBITION ON DETERMINING LOT SIZE:
No part of the width of any contiguous street shall be included in computing
the area of any building plot or zoning lot. (1977 Code § ZR-3-3)
CHAPTER 4
MISCELLANEOUS ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Home Occupations; Incidental Uses
10-4-2: Nonconformances
10-4-3: Utility Service
10-4-4: Animals
10-4-5: Beekeeping And Apiaries
10-4-6: Culvert Installation
10-4-7: Village Owned Parks Zoned R-1, R-2 And R-3, Residential, Exempt
10-4-1: HOME OCCUPATIONS; INCIDENTAL USES:
   A.   Structures Used For Home Occupations; Restrictions: Unless otherwise
prohibited or restricted herein, a permitted use also allows uses of the
existing residence and structures ancillary thereto located on the same site or
building plot for home occupations. However, ancillary structures shall not be
erected or home occupations established prior to the establishment or
construction of the principal use.
   B.   Incidental Uses: Only such home occupations and occasional sales in
compliance with the regulations contained in this section shall be permitted as
an incidental use in connection with any residence.
   C.   Home Occupation Standards: Home occupations shall be permitted as long
as they are uses that conform to the standards of this section. The following
standards shall govern the operation of a home occupation:
      1.   A home occupation is a permitted ancillary use only if it is so
located and conducted that:
         a.   The home occupation is subordinate and incidental to the
residential use of the subject property;
         b.   The home occupation does not alter the residential character of
the subject property;
         c.   The subject property remains compatible with other permitted uses
and with the residential character of the neighborhood and of the village;
         d.   The home occupation does not in any manner detract from the
residential character of the subject property, of the neighborhood or of the
village;
         e.   The home occupation does not detract from the peace, quiet and
tranquility of the neighborhood or of the village;
         f.   The average neighbor, under normal circumstances, would not be
aware of its existence; and
         g.   The home occupation shall be conducted completely within the
dwelling unit and/or structures ancillary thereto.
      2.   A home occupation in compliance with this section may be conducted
in any zoning district in which dwelling units are permitted.
      3.   The residence in which a home occupation is located shall be fully
subject to regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
      4.   The outside display or storage of goods, articles, products,
commodities, supplies and/or materials, equipment, tools, machinery and/or
other items utilized in a home occupation is prohibited.
      5.   Daycare facilities which require a license from the Illinois
department of children and family services shall not be permitted as a home
occupation. Daycare facilities which do not require such license shall be
permitted as a home occupation; provided, that the number of children outside
the family unit residing in the home does not exceed four (4).
      6.   A home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare, smoke,
fumes, dust, particulate matter or electrical interference beyond that which
normally occurs in the residential zoning district in which it is located, and
a home occupation shall not otherwise constitute a nuisance or a fire or safety
hazard to the occupants of nearby properties.
      7.   There shall be no discharge of any odors, fluids, gases, particulate
or solid waste material into the air or water or onto the land or into any
septic system or storm drain, swale or sewer, other than those normally
occurring in the residential use, as a result of any home occupation.
      8.   There shall be no use or storage of any pollutant, toxic chemical,
explosives, poison, accelerant, acid or any other chemical not normally used in
a residence, as a result of a home occupation, except chemicals not normally
used in a residence, or in quantities not normally used in customary
residential usage.
      9.   There shall be no change to the exterior of a residence or ancillary
structure as a result of a home occupation, and there shall be no alteration of
the interior of any dwelling which changes the character of such dwelling as a
residential structure.
      10.   As a result of a home occupation:
         a.   Traffic shall not be obstructed or impeded;
         b.   Requirements of street maintenance shall not be increased;
         c.   There shall be no significant increase in vehicular or pedestrian
traffic in the neighborhood or in the Village; and
         d.   Where the home occupation is the office for activities which are
conducted away from the premises, no vehicles of employees shall be parked at
the premises.
      11.   All employees shall be occupants of the residence and members of
the immediate family residing in the residence; provided, that one nonoccupant
may be employed.
   D.   License Required; Fee: Any person engaged in a home occupation shall
obtain a license to do so from the Village Clerk. The annual fee for a home
occupation license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1977 Code § ZR-1-8)
10-4-2: NONCONFORMANCES:
   A.   General Requirements And Restrictions:
      1.   Nonconforming Uses, Buildings Or Structures: Except as otherwise
provided in subsection B of this section, any lawful nonconforming use,
building or structure which was lawfully within the Village and existing at the
time of passage of the original zoning ordinance of the Village or any
amendment thereto, or which has been in existence for more than two (2) years
prior to becoming subject to the jurisdiction of the Village of North
Barrington, may be continued, maintained, or changed to a conforming use, but a
lawful nonconforming use, building or structure shall not be:
         a.   Changed to any other non-conforming use;
         b.   Expanded or enlarged; or
         c.   Reestablished, if discontinued or changed to a conforming use for
one year or more.
      2.   Maintenance And Minor Repairs: Nothing in this zoning ordinance
shall prohibit the maintenance or minor repair of a nonconforming building or
structure, provided that the maintenance or minor repair does not expand the
nonconforming building or structure. For purposes of this section, "maintenance
or minor repair" shall mean: a) repairs necessary to maintain and to correct
any damage or deterioration to the structural soundness or exterior appearance
of a building or structure without expanding or non-cosmetically altering the
building or structure; b) maintenance of land areas to protect against health
hazards and promote the safety of surrounding land uses; and c) repairs that
are required to remedy unsafe conditions that cause a threat to public safety.
      3.   Damage Or Destruction: If a nonconforming structure or a structure
containing a nonconforming use is destroyed to an extent greater than fifty
percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, then such
structure shall not be re-established unless it is in conformity with the
requirements of this section. (Ord. 1336, 10-24-2018)
   B.   Contiguous Lots: If two (2) or more contiguous lots of record (or
combination of lots of record or portions of lots of record) are in single
ownership at the time of adoption of this title, and if all or part of the lots
do not meet the requirements for lot width or area as established by this
title, the lots shall be considered an undivided parcel for the purpose of this
title. No portion of said parcel shall be used or sold which does not meet lot
width and area requirements established by this title, nor shall any division
of the parcel be made which leaves remaining any lot or lots with width or area
below the requirements stated in this title, although an entire parcel may be
used as one nonconforming use with approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals and
the Board of Trustees. Nothing herein shall prevent the conveyance of any
parcel or any portion of any parcel to an adjoining owner, if, after said
conveyance, the portion of said parcel not so conveyed (in the event of a
conveyance of a portion of a parcel) meets width and area requirements of this
title.
   C.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "single ownership of
separate lots of record" includes ownership by a spouse or child or by land
trust of which there is a common beneficial owner, or a land trust as to which
a child or spouse is a beneficial owner. (1977 Code § ZR-1-7)
10-4-3: UTILITY SERVICE:
   A.   Permitted Use: Poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals or any
other similar distributing equipment of a public utility are permitted in any
district if permitted by any franchise ordinance of the Village (now existing
or hereafter adopted or amended) and, except as otherwise provided herein, if
required for service to the Village and adjacent areas.
   B.   Underground Facilities; Exceptions: The customer portion of utility
service hereafter provided to any building or structure hereafter erected shall
be installed underground from existing utility owned distribution poles or
existing underground installations. Exceptions in existing high wire areas are
subject to the approval of the Building and Zoning Officer.
   C.   Replacement Of Service Poles: Existing utility owned distribution and
privately owned service poles shall not be replaced without specific permission
of the Superintendent of Roads. (1977 Code § ZR-1-6)
10-4-4: ANIMALS 1 :
   A.   Swine: Swine are not permitted as an accessory use in any zoning
district. (1977 Code § ZR-11-1)
   B.   Horses, Donkeys And Mules: Horses, donkeys and mules are not permitted
as an accessory use except in the R-1 District and are not permitted in the R-
1 District if the tract or parcel of land is a nonconforming use consisting of
less than three (3) acres. In the R-1 District, not more than three (3) such
animals shall be permitted for each five (5) acres, or portions thereof, of
land with the total not to exceed six (6) animals. (1977 Code § ZR-11-2)
   C.   Chickens: Subject to the following conditions and limitations, the
keeping of hens (the female of the chicken species Gallus gallusdomesticus) as
an accessory use shall be permitted on residential lots of forty thousand
(40,000) square feet or greater.
      1.   Number Of Hens: No more than six (6) hens shall be permitted on any
residential lot of forty thousand (40,000) square feet or greater.
      2.   Chicken Coops And Yards:
         a.   Chicken Coop: Hens shall be kept in a secure enclosed outdoor
coop, an accessory structure used for the purpose of keeping live chickens, so
as to offer protection from weather elements and from predators and
trespassers.
Coops shall provide at least three (3) square feet per hen and allow the hens
ingress and egress to an enclosed chicken yard. Coops shall not exceed eight
feet (8') in height.
Coops shall be covered with uniform materials and shall be maintained intact
with all parts secure. Any repairs shall maintain consistency with the original
structure in appearance and condition. The coop shall be replaced, removed or
repaired in the event of significant deterioration or unsightliness.
         b.   Chicken Yard: Coops shall be connected with an enclosed chicken
yard which shall be fenced. Hens shall not be allowed to roam outside of the
fenced yard unless attended. Hens shall be returned to the secured chicken coop
each night.
Chicken yards constructed with wire mesh fencing materials shall retain a flat,
uniform plane in a well maintained, safe condition.
      3.   Location And Setbacks:
         a.   Street Setbacks: Chicken coops and yards shall not be located
between the principal building and any improved alley or easement used for
ingress or egress or any road right-of-way. In the case of an unimproved right-
of-way, this provision may be modified by the Building and Zoning Officer in
consultation with the appropriate local roadway authority.
         b.   Setback To Structures: In addition to setback requirements for
accessory structures, chicken coops shall be located a minimum of thirty feet
(30') from dwellings, nonresidential buildings, patios, porches, gazebos, decks
or swimming pools, but may be within thirty feet (30') from storage structures
such as garages and sheds on an adjoining parcel.
      4.   Prohibitions And Management Practices:
         a.   Roosters: The keeping of roosters shall not be allowed.
         b.   Odors: Chicken coops and yards must be cleaned on a regular basis
so as to remain free from undue accumulated waste, and no significant odors
shall be detectable on adjacent properties.
         c.   Feed: All feed for hens shall, except when placed for consumption
by the hens, be kept in containers with tightly fitted lids that are
rodentproof.
         d.   Slaughter: No outdoor slaughter of chickens shall be allowed.
      5.   Property Assessment: Nothing herein is intended to affect the
assessed value of real property, it not being the intention of the Village that
the maintenance of hens shall be utilized to claim an agricultural
classification for real estate assessment purposes 2 . (Ord. 1265, 4-22-2015)
   D.   Sheep, Goats And Cattle: Sheep, goats and cattle are not permitted as
an accessory use except in the R-1 District where maintained as pets of
children under eighteen (18) years of age and are not permitted in the R-
1 District if the tract or parcel of land is a nonconforming use consisting of
less than three (3) acres. In the R-1 District, not more than three (3) sheep
or goats or cattle shall be permitted for each five (5) acres of land, with the
total not to exceed six (6) animals. (1977 Code § ZR-11-4)
   E.   Animal Houses And Grazing Near Dwelling: No horses, donkeys, mules,
sheep, goats or cattle shall be housed or grazed within two hundred feet (200')
of an adjacent property owner's dwelling. (1977 Code § ZR-11-5)
   F.   Dangerous Animals: No dangerous animals are allowed in any district, as
defined by priority by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, by Federal law or by
common definition.
   G.   Other Animals: For any type of animal not otherwise specified in the
Code, excepting domestic household pets, no more than three (3) such animals
shall be permitted for each five (5) acres, with the total not to exceed six
(6) animals. (Ord. 1336, 10-24-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 2 of the Village Code.
2 1. Note: Per the Illinois Department of Agriculture, those wishing to keep
  hens on their premises shall complete a livestock premises registration.
10-4-5: BEEKEEPING AND APIARIES:
The keeping of honeybees, of the European species Apis mellifera, except for
Apis mellifera scutellata Lepeletier, shall be permitted on lots of forty
thousand (40,000) square feet or greater, as an accessory use subject to the
following conditions and limitations:
   A.   Number Of Beehives: Two (2) full beehives ("hives") and two (2)
"nucleus hives" shall be permitted on residential lots of forty thousand
(40,000) square feet or greater and one additional beehive and one additional
nucleus hive shall be permitted for each additional ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of property. There shall be no limit on the number of hives
permitted on parcels with an area of two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet
or more. Nucleus hives, consisting of five (5) or fewer frames, are kept for
the purposes of queen and pest management.
   B.   Location And Setbacks:
      1.   Setbacks To Property Lines: Hives and related structures that form
the apiary shall be located a minimum of thirty feet (30') from any adjoining
improved alley, easement for purposes of ingress or egress, or road right-of-
way and a minimum of ten feet (10') from all other property lines, provided
that hives shall not be located in any front yards. In the case of an
unimproved right-of-way, this provision may be modified by the Building and
Zoning Officer in consultation with the appropriate local roadway authority.
      2.   Setback To Structures: Hives shall be located a minimum of thirty
feet (30') from dwellings, nonresidential buildings, patios, porches, gazebos,
decks, swimming pools, or permanently affixed play equipment, on an adjacent
property but may be within thirty feet (30') of storage structures such as
garages and sheds.
      3.   Signage: A sign, identifying the presence of beehives on the
property shall be posted so as to be reasonably visible within close proximity
of the apiary.
   C.   Management Practices:
      1.   Water Supply: A supply of water shall be continuously available and
located within the parcel. Water supply shall be designed to allow bees to
access water. Water requirement shall be in effect from April 1 through
November 20, or any and all days on which the temperature exceeds fifty five
degrees (55°) for three (3) consecutive days.
      2.   Requeening: In any instance in which a hive exhibits unusually
aggressive characteristics, as verified by an Illinois apiary inspector, the
property owner shall destroy, move to another parcel or requeen the hive within
fourteen (14) days of said verification.
      3.   Movable Combs: All honeybees shall be kept in hives with removable
combs, which shall be kept in good repair and usable condition. (Ord. 1265, 4-
22-2015)
10-4-6: CULVERT INSTALLATION:
The provisions of this section shall apply to all culvert installations which
are not governed by the provisions of section
9-1-12 of the Village Code.
Culverts located within the right-of-way of public streets, whether under
driveways or under the streets themselves, as well as culverts under driveways
located on private property, shall be constructed under the supervision of the
Village Engineer and shall be constructed of one of the following materials and
shall have the following specifications:
   A.   Reinforced concrete; or
   B.   Corrugated polyethylene with smooth interior; or
   C.   Polyvinyl chloride.
All flared end sections, fittings and specials shall match the pipe in all
respects. It is preferred that all portions of such pipe which are visible
after installation has been completed be a neutral color.
All pipe, except reinforced concrete, shall have at least twelve inches (12")
of cover from the top of the pipe to the bottom of the hard surface pavement,
except where lesser cover is authorized by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 1116, 5-
23-2007; amd. Ord. 1265, 4-22-2015)
10-4-7: VILLAGE OWNED PARKS ZONED R-1, R-2 AND R-3, RESIDENTIAL, EXEMPT:
The provisions of this zoning ordinance applicable to residentially zoned
property (R-1, R-2, and R-3) shall not apply to any such residentially zoned
property which is owned by the Village of North Barrington and is used for or
is dedicated as park property. (Ord. 1286, 6-22-2016)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING AND STORAGE OF MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS, BOATS AND VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Scope
10-5-2: Parking And Storage Regulations
10-5-3: Temporary Parking Permit
10-5-4: Variation From Provisions
10-5-5: Enforcement
10-5-1: SCOPE:
This chapter refers to and regulates any vehicle ordinarily classed or
similarly defined as a "truck", "recreational vehicle", "boat", "trailer",
"mobile home" or "inoperable vehicle". The definitions herein shall supplement
and take precedence over similar definitions in chapter 2 of this title. (1977
Code § ZR-12-1)
10-5-2: PARKING AND STORAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: Trucks, recreational vehicles, mobile
homes, trailers and boats may not be parked or stored on any property within
the Village except pursuant to the provisions and restrictions of this section
and this title.
   B.   Storage; Shielding Requirements: No truck, recreational vehicle,
trailer or boat shall be stored on any tract or parcel unless totally shielded
from the view of other properties and public streets; provided, however, that a
boat need not be so shielded when located on the bank of the pond or lake on
which it is used. Shielding may be provided by residences, legal fencing,
garages, legal storage buildings or landscaping and plantings when such screen
provides a total year round shielding. Such storage shall constitute an
"accessory building or use", as defined in this title, and must conform to all
applicable sections of this title including setback requirements and provisions
relative to incidental uses. Vehicles totally and legally "shielded" shall be
permitted unlimited storage or parking within said shielding without a parking
permit.
   C.   Unshielded Mobile Homes, Trailers, Boats And Vehicles:
      1.   Making Deliveries; Providing Services: Trucks, other commercial
vehicles or contractors' equipment not so shielded may be parked on any tract
or parcel when making a delivery or rendering a service at such site. The
parking of a truck or contractors' equipment by the owner or operator of such
vehicle or equipment at his place of residence shall not constitute the making
of a delivery or the rendering of a service if such parking exceeds four (4)
hours in any twenty four (24) hour period.
      2.   Loading And Unloading: Trucks, recreational vehicles, trailers or
boats not so shielded may be parked on the resident's own tract or parcel off
of the road right of way, for purposes of loading and unloading for a period or
periods not to exceed four (4) nonconsecutive two (2) day periods in any
calendar month, without permit. Parking for longer periods is permitted upon
issuance of an annual permit to the property owner as provided in this chapter.
Such annual permit parking is limited to a maximum of fourteen (14) consecutive
(permit and nonpermit) days and no more than an aggregate of forty five (45)
days in any three hundred sixty five (365) day period commencing with the date
of the issuance of the permit to the property owner.
      3.   Mobile Homes:
         a.   A mobile home not so shielded may be parked for a period not to
exceed fourteen (14) days upon issuance to the property owner of a permit as
provided in this chapter. Temporary parking for a period in excess of fourteen
(14) days may be permitted only by action of the Village Board.
         b.   A mobile home not so shielded may be used as a temporary office
or shelter incidental to construction or development of parcels within a
subdivision. Such mobile home may be placed within the subdivision only during
the time construction or development is actively under way, and in no event
shall such mobile home be located on the premises for a period in excess of one
year unless permitted by action of the Village Board. No more than one mobile
home for such purpose shall be permitted within any subdivision.
      4.   Storage Trailers: Storage trailers not so shielded may be used
incidental to construction of parcels within a subdivision. Such trailers may
be placed within such subdivision only during the time construction or
development is actively under way, and in no event shall such storage trailers
be located on the premises for a period in excess of one year unless permitted
by action of the Village Board. (1977 Code § ZR-12-2)
      5.   Inoperable Vehicles: No automobile or truck that is in an
inoperative condition as defined by section
7-9-1 of the Village Code or not displaying valid license plates shall be
parked or stored for more than ten (10) days on any tract or parcel except in
an enclosed garage. All repairs, other than minor, of such inoperative vehicles
shall be accomplished within an enclosed garage. (1977 Code § ZR-12-2; amd.
Ord. 1308, 9-27-2017)
   D.   Heliports: No heliports are permitted. (1977 Code § ZR-12-2)
10-5-3: TEMPORARY PARKING PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance: On written request by the resident within forty eight (48)
hours of arrival, the Village Clerk will issue, without cost, a permit for the
temporary parking of a truck, recreational vehicle, trailer, boat or mobile
home.
   B.   Scope Of Permit:
      1.   Truck, Recreational Vehicles And Boats: A permit for the temporary
parking of a truck, recreational vehicle, trailer or boat shall cover periods
when such vehicle is actually on the premises as represented to the Village
Clerk by the owner or occupier of the property on which the vehicle is parked,
but not to exceed forty five (45) days in any three hundred sixty five (365)
day period nor more than fourteen (14) consecutive days in any one period. New
permits may be issued at the end of each three hundred sixty five (365) day
period.
      2.   Mobile Homes: A permit for the temporary parking of a mobile home
shall cover a single period not to exceed fourteen (14) days and may not be
renewed.
   C.   Display Of Permit: Permits shall be kept in or attached to the vehicle
for which the permit was issued on the portion of the vehicle nearest to a
public road. (1977 Code § ZR-12-3)
10-5-4: VARIATION FROM PROVISIONS:
Any person making application for a variation from the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to comply with all requirements of chapter 12 of this
title, including but not limited to a hearing before the Zoning Board of
Appeals, service of written notice on all properties within two hundred fifty
feet (250') at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, and the publication of
the notice of such hearing not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date
thereof, provided that the fee for such application shall be three hundred
dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 1300, 4-27-2017)
10-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be by the enforcement agency as so designated
by the Village. (1977 Code § ZR-12-4)
CHAPTER 6
PERMITTED USES; SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: R-1 District (5 Acre Residential)
10-6-2: R-2 District (2 Acre Residential)
10-6-3: R-3 District (40,000 Square Feet Residential)
10-6-4: C District (Golf Courses And Club)
10-6-5: O And R District (Office And Research)
10-6-6: B-1 District (Business)
10-6-7: B-2 District (Business)
10-6-8: Regular Golf Course District (Golf Course, Residential, Office,
Research And Business)
10-6-9: Premier Golf Course District (Golf Course, Residential, Office,
Research And Business)
10-6-10: Premier Equestrian Estate District
10-6-1: R-1 DISTRICT (5 ACRE RESIDENTIAL):
   A.   Uses Permitted: The only uses permitted are:
"Accessory structure" and "accessory vehicular storage structure", as defined
in section
10-2-1 of this title; provided, however, that travel trailers, trucks, buses,
hauler trailers, motorized homes and boats of the owners of the premises may be
parked on portions of the premises pursuant to the other provisions and
restrictions of this title but may not otherwise be used or occupied for any
purpose.
Single-family residences, excluding trailers, provided the building plot or lot
has a width of at least two hundred (200) contiguous feet at the front lot
line, an average width of at least three hundred feet (300') and an area of at
least five (5) acres, and said minimum area shall not include any portion of a
vacated Village roadway, street or road easement vacated after October 1, 2001.
(1977 Code §ZR-5-1; amd. Ord. 874, 9-24-2001)
   B.   Building Height: No building or structure shall have more than three
(3) stories. The maximum height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') as
determined pursuant to the definitions of "predevelopment grade" and "building,
height of" in section
10-2-1 of this title.
   C.   Lot Coverage Ratio: The maximum LCR for this zoning district is
established as follows, provided that lots which are five (5) acres or larger
shall have a maximum LCR of ten percent (10%):
The LCR, expressed as a percentage, is calculated by expressing the lot size in
acres (to the nearest one hundredth of an acre) raised to the power of minus
0.29. The result is multiplied by 0.18 to determine LCR.
The following graph is for convenience in estimating LCR, with the final
determination calculated pursuant to the preceding two (2) sentences.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ab70bfa88b1a086c1c2444795371ea56edd6407e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1366.gif]
(Ord. 1073, 5-24-2006)
Anything in this subsection C to the contrary notwithstanding, any lot or
parcel which includes buildings, dog runs, swimming pools and immediate
appurtenances to swimming pools as required by the Village code, tennis courts
or other accessory structures (collectively "improvements") which are in
existence as of June 28, 2006, or are thereafter lawfully constructed pursuant
to the provisions of this section (including any improvements constructed
pursuant to a variance granted by the village), may be repaired, reconstructed,
replaced and, in the event of unintentional damage or destruction, rebuilt, but
not expanded, notwithstanding the provisions of this section. (Ord. 1105, 8-23-
2006)
   D.   Short Term Rentals: "Short term rentals" as defined in this title are
prohibited except as follows:
      1.   Rental by the preceding owner following sale to a new owner.
      2.   Rental of a different home by a resident of the village following
the sale of such resident's home.
      3.   Rental for a period of less than ninety three (93) days where the
owner receives from the Village Administrator a permit upon payment of a fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) and upon providing to the Village Administrator evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the Village Administrator that the primary purpose
of the rental is other than the holding of one or more parties or other
gatherings of more than ten (10) persons. Upon any rental the property owner
shall remain responsible for compliance with all applicable provisions of the
village code. (Ord. 1292, 9-28-2016)
10-6-2: R-2 DISTRICT (2 ACRE RESIDENTIAL):
   A.   Uses Permitted: The only uses permitted are:
"Accessory structure" and "accessory vehicular storage structure", as defined
in section
10-2-1 of this title; provided, however, that travel trailers, trucks, buses,
hauler trailers, motorized homes and boats of the owners of the premises may be
parked on portions of the premises pursuant to the other provisions and
restrictions of this title but may not otherwise be used or occupied for any
purpose.
Single-family residences, excluding trailers, provided the building plot or lot
has a width of at least one hundred twenty five (125) contiguous feet at the
front lot line, an average width of at least one hundred fifty feet (150') and
an area of at least two (2) acres, and said minimum area shall not include any
portion of a vacated village roadway, street or road easement vacated after
October 1, 2001. (1977 Code §ZR-5-2; amd. Ord. 874, 9-24-2001)
   B.   Building Height: No building or structure shall have more than three
(3) stories. The maximum height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') as
determined pursuant to the definitions of "predevelopment grade" and "building,
height of" in section
10-2-1 of this title.
   C.   Lot Coverage Ratio: The maximum LCR for this zoning district is
established as follows, provided that lots which are five (5) acres or larger
shall have a maximum LCR of ten percent (10%):
The LCR, expressed as a percentage, is calculated by expressing the lot size in
acres (to the nearest one hundredth of an acre) raised to the power of minus
0.29. The result is multiplied by 0.18 to determine LCR.
The following graph is for convenience in estimating LCR, with the final
determination calculated pursuant to the preceding two (2) sentences.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ab70bfa88b1a086c1c2444795371ea56edd6407e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1368.gif]
(Ord. 1073, 5-24-2006)
Anything in this subsection C to the contrary notwithstanding, any lot or
parcel which includes buildings, dog runs, swimming pools and immediate
appurtenances to swimming pools as required by this village code, tennis courts
or other accessory structures (collectively "improvements") which are in
existence as of June 28, 2006, or are thereafter lawfully constructed pursuant
to the provisions of this section (including any improvements constructed
pursuant to a variance granted by the village), may be repaired, reconstructed,
replaced and, in the event of unintentional damage or destruction, rebuilt, but
not expanded, notwithstanding the provisions of this section. (Ord. 1105, 8-23-
2006)
   D.   Short Term Rentals: "Short term rentals" as defined in this title are
prohibited except as follows:
      1.   Rental by the preceding owner following sale to a new owner.
      2.   Rental of a different home by a resident of the village following
the sale of such resident's home.
      3.   Rental for a period of less than ninety three (93) days where the
owner receives from the Village Administrator a permit upon payment of a fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) and upon providing to the Village Administrator evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the Village Administrator that the primary purpose
of the rental is other than the holding of one or more parties or other
gatherings of more than ten (10) persons. Upon any rental the property owner
shall remain responsible for compliance with all applicable provisions of the
village code. (Ord. 1292, 9-28-2016)
10-6-3: R-3 DISTRICT (40,000 SQUARE FEET RESIDENTIAL):
   A.   Uses Permitted: The only uses permitted are:
"Accessory structure" and "accessory vehicular storage structure", as defined
in section
10-2-1 of this title; provided, however, that travel trailers, trucks, buses,
hauler trailers, motorized homes and boats of the owners of the premises may be
parked on portions of the premises pursuant to the other provisions and
restrictions of this title but may not otherwise be used or occupied for any
purpose.
Single-family residences, excluding trailers, provided the building plot or lot
has a width of at least one hundred fifteen (115) contiguous feet at the front
lot line, an average width of at least one hundred thirty feet (130') and an
area of at least forty thousand (40,000) square feet, and said minimum area
shall not include any portion of a vacated village roadway, street or road
easement vacated after October 1, 2001. (1977 Code § ZR-5-3; amd. Ord. 874, 9-
24-2001)
   B.   Building Height: No building or structure shall have more than three
(3) stories. The maximum height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') as
determined pursuant to the definitions of "predevelopment grade" and "building,
height of" in section
10-2-1 of this title.
   C.   Lot Coverage Ratio: The maximum LCR for this zoning district is
established as follows, provided that lots which are five (5) acres or larger
shall have a maximum LCR of ten percent (10%):
The LCR, expressed as a percentage, is calculated by expressing the lot size in
acres (to the nearest one hundredth of an acre) raised to the power of minus
0.29. The result is multiplied by 0.18 to determine LCR.
The following graph is for convenience in estimating LCR, with the final
determination calculated pursuant to the preceding two (2) sentences.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ab70bfa88b1a086c1c2444795371ea56edd6407e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1370.gif]
(Ord. 1073, 5-24-2006)
Anything in this subsection C to the contrary notwithstanding, any lot or
parcel which includes buildings, dog runs, swimming pools and immediate
appurtenances to swimming pools as required by this village code, tennis courts
or other accessory structures (collectively "improvements") which are in
existence as of June 28, 2006, or are thereafter lawfully constructed pursuant
to the provisions of this section (including any improvements constructed
pursuant to a variance granted by the village), may be repaired, reconstructed,
replaced and, in the event of unintentional damage or destruction, rebuilt, but
not expanded, notwithstanding the provisions of this section. (Ord. 1105, 8-23-
2006)
   D.   Short Term Rentals: "Short term rentals" as defined in this title are
prohibited except as follows:
      1.   Rental by the preceding owner following sale to a new owner.
      2.   Rental of a different home by a resident of the Village following
the sale of such resident's home.
      3.   Rental for a period of less than ninety three (93) days where the
owner receives from the Village Administrator a permit upon payment of a fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) and upon providing to the Village Administrator evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the Village Administrator that the primary purpose
of the rental is other than the holding of one (1) or more parties or other
gatherings of more than ten (10) persons. Upon any rental the property owner
shall remain responsible for compliance with all applicable provisions of the
Village Code. (Ord. 1292, 9-28-2016)
10-6-4: C DISTRICT (GOLF COURSES AND CLUB):
The only uses which hereafter may be established are those permitted in the R-
1 District and, in addition, the following:
Clubs incorporated and operated not for profit.
Golf courses. (1977 Code § ZR-5-4)
10-6-5: O AND R DISTRICT (OFFICE AND RESEARCH):
   A.   Uses Permitted: The only uses permitted are:
Administrative and advertising offices.
Research facilities.
Other similar establishments whose activities are limited to research and
testing and offices, the function of which requires only limited contact with
the general public and where no product is made to be sold or offered for sale,
and where no manufacturing, assembly or fabrication of products is done to be
sold or offered for sale.
   B.   Site And Structure Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area: Each use hereafter established shall be on a lot which
will provide an area of not less than five (5) acres and shall be not less than
three hundred feet (300') in width at the front building line.
      2.   Lot Coverage: Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot may be
occupied by buildings or structures.
      3.   Building Height: No building or structure shall have more than three
(3) stories. The maximum height at any point shall not exceed thirty five feet
(35') from ground level, measured from the highest point of the "ground" (as
herein defined) which is located within two feet (2') of any portion of the
proposed foundation or which is located adjacent to the foundation, whichever
is lower. "Ground" means the elevation of the land at the location of the
proposed building or structure as it existed at the time of creation of the
subdivision in which it is located, if known, or as it existed one (1) year
prior to the date of application for a building permit, whichever is earlier.
(1977 Code § ZR-5-5)
10-6-6: B-1 DISTRICT (BUSINESS):
   A.   Uses Permitted: The only uses which hereafter may be established are
those permitted in the R-1 or R-2 District and, in addition, the following:
Animal hospitals.
Greenhouses.
Nurseries.
Professional and business offices.
Residential apartments and duplex or group houses at the rate of not more than
one (1) living unit for each three thousand (3,000) square feet of lot or
building plot.
   B.   Site And Structure Requirements:
      1.   Building Height: No building or structure shall have more than three
(3) stories. The maximum height at any point shall not exceed thirty five feet
(35') from ground level, measured from the highest point of the "ground" (as
herein defined) which is located within two feet (2') of any portion of the
proposed foundation or which is located adjacent to the foundation, whichever
is lower. "Ground" means the elevation of the land at the location of the
proposed building or structure as it existed at the time of creation of the
subdivision in which it is located, if known, or as it existed one (1) year
prior to the date of application for a building permit, whichever is earlier.
      2.   Lot Coverage: Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot may be
occupied by buildings or structures. (1977 Code § ZR-5-6)
10-6-7: B-2 DISTRICT (BUSINESS):
   A.   Uses Permitted: The only uses which hereafter may be established are
those permitted in the R-1 or R-2 District and the B-1 District and, in
addition, the following:
Commercial or trade schools.
General retail stores excluding automobile sales, service and repair.
Restaurants, excluding drive in restaurants.
   B.   Site And Structure Requirements:
      1.   Building Height: No building or structure shall have more than three
(3) stories. The maximum height at any point shall not exceed thirty five feet
(35') from ground level, measured from the highest point of the "ground" (as
herein defined) which is located within two feet (2') of any portion of the
proposed foundation or which is located adjacent to the foundation, whichever
is lower. "Ground" means the elevation of the land at the location of the
proposed building or structure as it existed at the time of creation of the
subdivision in which it is located, if known, or as it existed one (1) year
prior to the date of application for a building permit, whichever is earlier.
      2.   Lot Coverage: Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot may be
occupied by buildings or structures. (1977 Code § ZR-5-7)
10-6-8: REGULAR GOLF COURSE DISTRICT (GOLF COURSE, RESIDENTIAL, OFFICE,
RESEARCH AND BUSINESS):
   A.   Lot Size: No tract or contiguous parcels of land shall be zoned Regular
Golf Course District unless the tract or contiguous parcels comprise more than
three hundred (300) acres but not more than five hundred (500) acres at the
time of rezoning. Thereafter, parcels of land or lots may be sold, provided the
property as a whole is developed under the Illinois Condominium Property Act 1
, or by restrictions running with the land or by any other method or legal
entity which provides assurances, to the satisfaction of the Village, that the
property will continue to be treated as one (1) development for the purpose of
maintenance of common elements, including private roads.
   B.   Uses Permitted: The only uses which may be established in the regular
golf course district are those permitted in the R-1 district and, in addition,
the following:
Clubhouses and related facilities ancillary to a golf club.
Golf courses; providing, that the areas devoted exclusively to golf course uses
shall not be less than one hundred twenty five (125) acres.
Office and research facilities, and business facilities related to the golf
course or to the office and research facilities; provided, that the area
devoted to said office and research and related business facilities shall
comprise not more than ten percent (10%) of the total area in the project being
developed pursuant to said regular golf course district.
On site wastewater treatment facilities and community water facilities;
provided, that the wastewater treatment facilities will be designed to serve
only the regular golf course district unless otherwise requested by the Village
Board, and provided further, that the design and construction of the wastewater
treatment facilities and the water facilities shall be subject to approval by
the Village Engineer.
Single-family residences on less than five (5) acres, provided:
      1. The maximum number of residences shall not exceed the quotient of
dividing the total acreage of the project by the number 2 in order that the
overall density shall be 0.5 per acre.
      2. At least two-thirds (2/3) of the total number of residences shall be
single-family detached homes, each on a lot of not less than sixty thousand
(60,000) square feet; provided, however, that a residence may be built on a lot
of less than sixty thousand (60,000) square feet but not less than forty
thousand (40,000) square feet (undersized lot) if one (1) or more single-
family lots contiguous to the undersized lot contain sixty thousand (60,000)
square feet, plus at least the number of square feet by which the undersized
lot is less than sixty thousand (60,000) square feet; provided, however, that
the Village Board, on petition of owners and after a public hearing before the
Plan Commission, may authorize a reduction in the number of single-family
detached homes (and a corresponding increase in the number of single-family
detached residences or zero lot line residences as provided for in subsection 3
of this use).
      3. Not more than one-third (1/3) of the residences may be single-family
detached residences or zero lot line residences of not more than three (3)
residences per acre; provided further, that the Village Board, on petition of
owners and after a public hearing before the Plan Commission, may authorize an
increase in the number of said single-family detached residences or zero lot
line residences of not more than three (3) residences per acre (and a
corresponding decrease in the number of single-family detached homes as
provided for in subsection 2 of this use).
      4. All roads within the Regular Golf Course District shall be private,
other than existing roads which traverse the district or are adjoining to it.
   C.   Development A Special Use: Development of property within the Regular
Golf Course District shall be as a special use, pursuant to chapter 7 of this
title. (1977 Code § ZR-5-8)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
10-6-9: PREMIER GOLF COURSE DISTRICT (GOLF COURSE, RESIDENTIAL, OFFICE,
RESEARCH AND BUSINESS):
   A.   Lot Size: No tract or contiguous parcels of land shall be zoned Premier
Golf Course District unless the tract or contiguous parcels comprise five
hundred (500) acres or more at the time of rezoning. Thereafter, parcels of
land or lots may be sold, provided the property as a whole is developed under
the Illinois Condominium Property Act 1 , or by restrictions running with the
land or by any other method or legal entity which provides assurances, to the
satisfaction of the Village, that the property will continue to be treated as
one (1) development for the purpose of maintenance of common elements,
including private roads. (1977 Code § ZR-5-9)
   B.   Uses Permitted: The only uses which may be established in the Premier
Golf Course District are those permitted in the R-1 District and, in addition,
the following:
Clubhouses and related facilities ancillary to a golf club.
Golf courses; providing, that the areas devoted exclusively to golf course uses
shall not be less than one hundred fifty (150) acres.
Office and research facilities, and business facilities related to the golf
course or to the office and research facilities; provided, that the area
devoted to said office and research and related business facilities shall
comprise not more than ten percent (10%) of the total area in the project being
developed pursuant to said Premier Golf Course District. Any time after four
(4) years from the date of the ordinance approving the rezoning to Premier Golf
Course District, owners may convert the use of all or a portion of the land
area designated for office, research and related facilities from said use to
use for single-family detached residences with an additional number of
permitted residential units not to exceed one (1) unit for each one and one-
half (11/2) acres converted.
On site wastewater treatment facilities and community water facilities, which
shall be required; provided, that the wastewater treatment facilities will be
designed to serve only this Premier Golf Course District unless otherwise
requested by the Village Board, and provided further, that the design and
construction of the wastewater treatment facilities and the water facilities
shall be subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
Single-family residences on less than five (5) acres, provided:
      1. The maximum number of residences shall not exceed one (1) dwelling
unit for each one and one-half (11/2) acres of the total area in the project
being developed pursuant to said Premier Golf Course District.
      2.   At least two-thirds (2/3) of the total number of residences shall be
single-family detached homes; provided, however, that the Village Board, on
petition of owners and after a public hearing before the Plan Commission, may
authorize a reduction in the number of single-family detached homes (and a
corresponding increase in the number of single-family detached residences or
zero lot line residences as provided for in subsection 3 of this use). The
average lot size for said single-family detached homes shall be not less than
one (1) acre in size, exclusive of the areas devoted to roads and highways.
      3.   Not more than one-third (1/3) of the total permitted residences may
be in single-family detached residences or zero lot line residences of not more
than three (3) residences per acre; provided, that single-family attached
residences may be permitted by the Village Board after a hearing before the
Plan Commission (whether as part of the special use process or otherwise);
provided further, that the Village Board, on petition of owners and after a
public hearing before the Plan Commission, may authorize an increase in the
number of said single-family detached residences or zero lot line residences of
not more than three (3) residences per acre (and a corresponding decrease in
the number of single-family detached homes as provided for in subsection 2 of
this use).
      4.   All roads within the Premier Golf Course District shall be private,
other than existing roads which traverse the district or are adjoining to it.
5. No residential lot which has been created pursuant to a plat of subdivision
shall be divided or subdivided and no part less than the whole thereof may be
conveyed except to the owner of contiguous property. (1977 Code § ZR-5-9; amd.
Ord. 1307, 8-23-2017)
   C.   Development A Special Use: Development of property within the Premier
Golf Course District shall be as a special use, pursuant to chapter 7 of this
title. (1977 Code § ZR-5-9)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
10-6-10: PREMIER EQUESTRIAN ESTATE DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Premier Equestrian Estate District is to
provide for "equestrian uses" as defined by this title and single-family homes,
all as specified and limited herein.
   B.   Minimum District Size: No tract or contiguous parcels of land and lots
shall be zoned Premier Equestrian Estate District unless the tract or
contiguous parcels comprise sixty (60) acres or more at the time of rezoning.
Thereafter, additional contiguous parcels of land and lots may be added to such
district. Parcels of land and lots in said district may be sold, provided the
property as a whole is developed and used pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
   C.   Uses Permitted: The permitted and accessory uses which may be
established in the Premier Equestrian Estate District are those permitted in
the R-1 District, as provided in section
10-6-1 of this chapter, together with the "equestrian uses", as defined in
section
10-2-1 of this title, and equestrian centers, as defined in this section,
together with the additional uses and subject to the additional restrictions
hereinafter set forth:
      1.   Within a Premier Equestrian Estate District, not less than forty
five (45) acres of contiguous property shall be developed for single-family
detached residences on lots or parcels having an area of not less than five (5)
acres provided, however, there shall be permitted one (1) residential lot or
parcel having an area of less than five (5) acres but not less than four and
one- half (4.5) acres. In addition to the residential uses permitted in the R-
1 District (and accessory uses permitted in connection therewith) each
residential lot or parcel may be used for the "equestrian uses" defined in
section
10-2-1 of this title subject to the limitations hereinafter set forth.
      2.   One (1) or more additional lot(s) or parcel(s) may be added to a
Premier Equestrian Estate District and lot(s) or parcel(s) originally located
within a Premier Equestrian Estate District or subsequently added thereto may
be combined with other lots or parcels within said district to comprise or
enlarge an equestrian center (as hereinafter provided) provided that the lots
or parcels intended for development with single-family detached residences
continue to meet the minimum area requirements set forth in subsection C1 of
this section.
      3.   With respect to those lots or parcels located within a Premier
Equestrian Estate District which are developed, or are to be developed, for
single-family detached residences, the following additional permissible uses
and restrictions shall apply:
         a.   The restriction on the number of horses permissible by virtue of
subsections 10-4-4B and E of this title shall not apply. In lieu thereof, up to
four (4) horses may be permitted for the single four and one-half (4.5) acre
lot provided for in subsection C1 of this section. For each single-family
detached residential lot or parcel containing five (5) acres or more, there
shall be permitted a number of horses equal to eight-tenths (0.8) horses per
acre or part thereof, rounded to the next higher number.
         b.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, should any owner assemble and
thereafter continue to maintain lots or parcels as a single homesite which, in
the aggregate, constitute fifteen (15) or more acres, the restrictions as to
horses contained in subsections 10-4-4B and E of this title shall not apply. In
lieu thereof, there shall be permitted a number of horses equal to 1.2 horses
per acre or part thereof, rounded to the next higher number.
         c.   The restrictions contained in subsections 10-4-4C and D of this
title shall apply to all lots or parcels developed, or intended for
development, as single-family detached residences with the exception that the
age limitation contained therein, restricting ownership of such animals to
children less than eighteen (18) years of age, shall not apply.
         d.   Subject to the restrictions and provisions as to the number of
horses provided by this section, owners of lots or parcels improved, or to be
improved, with single-family detached dwelling units may board, groom and train
horses not belonging to said owners and such activities shall not constitute a
home occupation within the meaning of section
10-4-1 of this title and no compliance with the requirements of that chapter or
any other similar regulation shall be required.
         e.   All bulk regulations, setbacks, and regulations related to
accessory structures and uses shall be those applicable to the development of
lots or parcels in the R-1 district except:
            (1)   There shall be permitted as an accessory structure, or as a
part of an accessory structure, a separate residential housing accommodation
not to exceed one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of living space
suitable for occupancy by not more than two (2) adult persons (and any of their
minor children) who are employed by the owner(s) of the principal residence in
the capacity of housekeeper, caretaker, au pair, groomsman or in similar
domestic capacities.
            (2)   Without regard to the restrictions contained in section
10-5-1 of this title, recreational vehicles, trailers, boats, horse trailers
and similar accessory vehicles may be parked and stored anywhere on a lot or
parcel except that all such uses or structures may not be located in a required
minimum front yard of fifty feet (50') and further provided that they shall be
screened from the view of any public right of way or adjacent lot or parcel.
            (3)   Notwithstanding the restrictions contained in section
10-9-4 of this title, accessory buildings, structures, accessory vehicle
storage structures and other accessory uses and structures shall not be
confined to the rear one-third (1/3) of a residential lot or parcel but may be
located anywhere on the lot or parcel except that all such uses or structures
may not be located in a required minimum front yard of fifty feet (50').
         f.   Signage identifying a development within the premier equestrian
estate district shall be approved as part of the site plan approval process.
The site plan shall identify the location of all such signs, the dimensions of
such signs, the materials to be used in the construction of such signs and any
ground or back lighting proposed for such signs.
         g.   Signage identifying a particular single-family residence
including the address of the resident, including the internal lighting or
ground lighting of such signage, shall be exempt pursuant to subsection 10-10-
8A of this title.
         h.   The square footage of ground surface area to be covered with
buildings, structures and other impervious surfaces shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the square footage of the lots or parcels which are developed,
or are to be developed, for single-family detached residences.
      4.   Within a premier equestrian estate district, there shall be
permitted an equestrian center. An equestrian center may be located upon a
single lot or parcel or any combination of contiguous lots or parcels
comprising an area of not less than fifteen (15) acres. The development of the
equestrian center shall be in substantial conformance with an approved site
plan which shall be appended to any ordinance and map amendment zoning any area
to a premier equestrian estate district or approving any area within a premier
equestrian estate district for the equestrian center. The site plan shall
depict the location, size and materials to be used in the construction of all
buildings and other structures to be located upon the lots or parcels
comprising the equestrian center. The following additional permissible uses and
restrictions shall apply to equestrian centers:
         a.   The equestrian center may include a residence but no primary
single-family detached residential structure shall be required.
         b.   Permissible equestrian uses at an equestrian center shall be
deemed to include horse clinics and demonstrations related to horses provided
that parking for any clinic, demonstration or other event shall be limited to
the area devoted to the equestrian center.
         c.   The equestrian center may contain such structures as may be
necessary or convenient to the operation of an equestrian facility utilized for
the "equestrian uses" defined in section
10-2-1 of this title. Nonresidential structures intended for equestrian uses
may be built to standards applicable to agricultural buildings.
         d.   Within an equestrian center, the restrictions contained in
subsections 10-4-4B and E of this title shall not apply. The maximum
permissible number of horses to be located within or upon the equestrian center
shall be a number resulting from multiplying the total number of acres
contained within any single premier equestrian estate district by a factor of
1.5. Further, there shall be no restriction on where, within the lots or
parcels comprising the equestrian center, such horses may graze or be housed.
         e.   Within an equestrian center, there shall be permitted an
accessory residential building not exceeding three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet of floor area intended for occupancy by groomsmen and
caretakers provided that such housing structure may not contain more than eight
(8) bedrooms.
         f.   Without regard to the restrictions contained in section
10-5-1 or
10-9-4 of this title, accessory buildings, structures, accessory vehicle
storage structures, recreational vehicles, trailers, boats, horse trailers and
similar accessory vehicles may be parked and stored anywhere within the lots or
parcels comprising an equestrian center except that all such uses or structures
may not be located in a required minimum front yard of thirty feet (30') and
further provided that they shall be screened from the view of any public right
of way or adjacent lot or parcel.
         g.   Should an approved site plan depict buildings, structures or uses
which, in the absence of a site plan, require specific relief from any
restriction otherwise set forth in the Village code, the adoption of an
ordinance approving a site plan for an equestrian center shall be deemed to be
a grant of relief from such other restriction, rule or regulation which is in
conflict with the approved site plan.
      5.   Within all portions of a premier equestrian estate district,
irrespective of whether the lots or parcels are developed, or intended to be
developed with single-family detached dwellings or an equestrian center, the
following shall apply:
         a.   The restrictions contained in subsection 10-4-4A of this title
shall apply to all lots or parcels developed, or intended for development, as
single-family detached residences.
         b.   There shall be permitted all other ancillary structures and uses
as may otherwise be allowed in the Village's zoning regulations (i.e., detached
garages, swimming pools, storage sheds, etc.).
         c.   In addition to all fences otherwise authorized by the Village
code, there shall be permitted perimeter fences on or adjacent to all lot
lines. Said perimeter fences shall not exceed five feet (5') in height and
shall be designed to contain horses; this shall specifically include the right
to maintain low voltage electric fences.
         d.   Entrance features to each lot or parcel may contain wing walls
each to be of a length of not greater than ten feet (10') having a height of
not greater than eight feet (8'), including pylons and other structural
elements. Entrances may feature entrance gates not exceeding eight feet (8') in
height. Said entrance gates may be electrified. The entrances to each lot or
parcel may be lighted in a manner specified in any approved building permit
issued for the construction of said entrance.
   D.   Administrative Provisions: Any application seeking a map amendment to
classify or reclassify lots or parcels of land into a premier equestrian estate
district, and any ordinance approving such classification or reclassification,
shall incorporate a site plan which shall also constitute a preliminary and
final plat of subdivision in conformance with section
9-1-4 of the Village code.
      1.   Notwithstanding any limitation contained in section
9-1-11 of the Village code or section
10-1-3 of this title, an approved site plan may provide for variations and
deviations from strict conformance with the requirements of the Village's
subdivision and zoning regulations. Approval of any site plan incorporating
preliminary and/or final plats of subdivision which contain deviations or
variations from strict conformance with any requirement of title 9 of the
Village code or this title shall be deemed an authorized waiver of such
requirements to the extent of any such deviation or variation without regard to
any more restrictive requirements otherwise set forth in the Village code.
Further, such authorized deviations or variations shall thereafter be deemed
fully lawful such that limitations applicable to legal nonconformities shall
not impair the legal right to rebuild any building or structure or reestablish
any use permitted by virtue of such deviations or variations.
   E.   Land Newly Annexed: Irrespective of the provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title, property newly annexed into the Village and zoned premier
equestrian estate district shall be deemed to comply with the Village's
comprehensive plan.
   F.   Site Plan And Subdivision Compliance: Irrespective of the provisions of
section
9-1-3 of the Village code, the approval of map amendments classifying property
within the premier equestrian estate district and the approval of site plans
and plats of subdivision of property located within said district shall be
deemed to comply with the Village's comprehensive plan and the restrictions set
forth in section
9-1-3 of the Village code shall not constitute a basis for the disapproval of
any application for relief requested under this section.
   G.   Variations From Subdivision Regulations: Irrespective of the provisions
of subsection 9-1-2B of the Village code, the adoption of an ordinance
approving any site plan or plat of subdivision of property classified within
the premier equestrian estate district which shall in any way vary or deviate
from any other provision of the Village code shall be governed by the
provisions of this section and shall be deemed to constitute authorized
variations or deviations from such other conflicting provision pursuant to
subsection 9-1-2D and section
9-1-11 of the Village code.
   H.   Conflicting Code Provisions: Irrespective of the provisions of
subsections 10-1-3A, B and C of this title and notwithstanding any more
restrictive provision of any other section of the Village code, the approval of
site plans and plats of subdivision for property located within the premier
equestrian estate district need only comply with the requirements of this
section as the same may be applied and varied in any ordinance or resolution
approving a site plan and plat of subdivision. (Ord. 1165, 9-30-2009)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Special Uses Enumerated
10-7-3: Applications For Special Uses; Procedures
10-7-4: Trailers And Mobile Homes As Residences
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
There may be situations where certain special uses should be permitted. These
situations require particular consideration as to their proper location in
relation to adjacent established or intended uses and to the orderly
development of the community. The conditions controlling the location and
operation of such special uses are established by the provisions of this
chapter. In granting a special use, the corporate authorities may waive
compliance with those provisions of this title which are specified in the
special use ordinance. (1977 Code § ZR-6-1)
10-7-2: SPECIAL USES ENUMERATED:
The following uses shall be special uses:
Cellular, personal wireless communications services (PCS) and other wireless
telecommunications service facilities in the R-1 district; provided, that such
facilities shall be a permitted zoning use when located on Village Hall site
if, at the time of placement of any such facility, there are no existing
primary residential structures within a radius of one and three-tenths (1.3)
times the height of any proposed antenna or tower and, notwithstanding any
other provisions of this code or of this title, in no event less than two
hundred twenty five feet (225') as measured from the point of installation and
that said facilities, whether located in the R-1 district or on Village Hall
site, shall comply with the provisions of title 3, chapter 5 of this code.
Churches.
Golf clubs pursuant to sections
10-6-8 and
10-6-9 of this title.
Parks, playgrounds and forest preserves publicly owned and operated.
Planned developments described in chapter 8 of this title.
Publicly owned libraries.
Schools, public and private, elementary and high, nonboarding and including
playgrounds and athletic fields incidental thereto.
Trailers and mobile homes designed, equipped and installed for use as a
permanent residence, but only in an R-3 district.
Village Hall, Village garages, parking areas, storage buildings, other Village
facilities, and uses appurtenant to any of the foregoing uses; also buildings
or structures and parking areas for use by any other public body, and uses
appurtenant to any of the foregoing uses. (1977 Code § ZR-6-2; amd. Ord. 818,
10-25-1999)
10-7-3: APPLICATIONS FOR SPECIAL USES; PROCEDURES:
The procedure to be followed in considering applications for special uses shall
be as follows:
   A.   Filing Application: An application, verified by the owner or authorized
agent of the property involved, shall be filed with the Village Clerk for the
attention of the Village Board upon a form prescribed therefor which shall
contain, or be accompanied by, all required information.
   B.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of such verified application, the Village
Board shall authorize the Village Clerk to notify the chair of the Plan
Commission, or in his absence the vice chair, who shall give notice of a public
hearing as provided for amendments to this title 1 . (1977 Code § ZR-6-3)
   C.   Public Hearing Notice Provisions; Sign To Be Posted On Property: No
special use shall be made without a hearing before the Plan Commission. At
least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village. A copy of such
notice shall be delivered in person or mailed not less than ten (10) days in
advance of the hearing to all owners of property within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of the subject property (excluding in such measurement rights of way of
streets and roads) but in no event shall notice be given to less than three (3)
closest property owners on the same side of the street and, in addition, three
(3) closest property owners on the opposite side of the street from the
petitioner's property; provided, however, that for the purpose of this section,
ownership may be determined on the basis of the last available tax records of
the county. Mailings shall be accomplished by the Village staff, to whom the
applicant shall deliver unsealed, addressed and stamped envelopes not less than
thirteen (13) days in advance of the date of the hearing.
In addition to the published newspaper notice and mailed or delivered notice as
provided in this subsection, the Village Clerk or the designee of the Village
Clerk shall post on the subject property for which a special use is sought, or
to which a special use relates in a location generally perpendicular to the
adjoining street and reasonably visible from each adjoining street, a two (2)
sided sign approximately three feet by two feet (3' x 2') in size stating
substantially as follows:
 
Village of North Barrington       Letters are 2 inches
Notice of Zoning Hearing          Letters are 2 inches
This Property is the Subject of a Letters are 15/8 inches
Request for Zoning Change         Letters are 15/8 inches
For Information Contact the       Letters are 15/8 inches
Village at 847/381-6000           Letters are 15/8 inches
 
In the case of property fronting on two (2) or more streets, such sign shall be
posted on each street.
Said sign shall be posted not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of
the public hearing and shall be removed within five (5) days after the
conclusion of the public hearing. (Ord. 1160, 5-27-2009)
   D.   Recommendation; Records Kept: A record of pertinent information
presented at the public hearing and minutes as required by law shall be made
and maintained by the Plan Commission, which shall make its recommendation to
the Village Board within sixty (60) days after termination of the public
hearing.
   E.   Conditions Of Special Use: No special use shall be authorized by the
Village Board unless the Board shall determine that such development is
necessary for public convenience and welfare and will protect the public
health, safety and welfare and comply with the stipulations and conditions
contained in the specific ordinance establishing special uses. (1977 Code § ZR-
6-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 10-12-4B of this title.
10-7-4: TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES AS RESIDENCES:
   A.   Considerations:
      1.   In considering any application for a conditional use to permit
trailers and mobile homes designed, equipped and installed for use as a
permanent residence, the Plan Commission and Village Board shall take into
account, in addition to any other matters deemed pertinent, the following:
         a.   The effect of the establishment of such special use upon
adjoining properties;
         b.   Location of the proposed special use with reference to property
lines and other structures whether on the property of the applicant or
otherwise;
         c.   Possible impact upon drainage; and
         d.   Possible impact upon septic systems and compliance with the
provisions of this title.
      2.   Consideration shall also be given to health, safety and sanitation
matters relating to water supply, sewage disposal, fire protection and police
protection.
   B.   Final Approval By Village Board: In all cases, final approval of such
special use shall rest with the Village Board of Trustees.
   C.   Construction And Design Specifications; Required Permits: The terms and
specifications of any other applicable ordinance and this code shall govern the
particulars of construction and design of any such special use, and any permits
required in addition to the special use permit herein required shall be
obtained. (1977 Code § ZR-6-4)
CHAPTER 8
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS 1
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose Of Regulations
10-8-2: Findings
10-8-3: Application Of Provisions
10-8-4: Districts Where Planned Developments Permitted
10-8-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-8-6: Dedication Of Land For Public Use
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-8-5 of this code for property development cost provisions.
10-8-1: PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS:
Planned developments are of such substantially different character from other
special uses that specific and additional exceptions are hereby set out to
govern the recommendations of the Plan Commission and the action of the Village
Board in the approval thereof. (1977 Code § ZR-7-1)
10-8-2: FINDINGS:
In the case of every planned development, the Plan Commission shall find that
such development is for the purpose of promoting an orderly transition from one
district to another or promoting an integrated site plan no less beneficial to
the residents of such development, neighboring properties and the entire area
than would be obtained if said tract of land were subdivided under the
restrictions of only one zoning district. (1977 Code § ZR-7-2)
10-8-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The rules of procedure, regulations and standards established in this chapter
may be substituted for the district regulations set forth elsewhere in this
title, but only in those cases where a planned development option is approved.
(1977 Code § ZR-7-2)
10-8-4: DISTRICTS WHERE PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS PERMITTED:
Planned developments shall be permissible only in R-1, R-2, regular golf course
and premier golf course districts. (1977 Code § ZR-7-2)
10-8-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The minimum gross site area for a planned development shall be as
follows:
      1.   In the R-1 and R-2 districts, twenty (20) acres;
      2.   In the regular golf course district, three hundred (300) acres; and
      3.   In the premier golf course district, five hundred (500) acres.
   B.   The total number of dwelling units shall not exceed twice the number
which would be permitted in an R-1 district and one and one-half (11/2) the
number which would be permitted in an R-2 district if the tract were developed
conventionally under the regulations applicable within the district in which
the planned development is located. Where the entire tract lies within a single
district, such total number of dwelling units shall be calculated by dividing
the area of the tract by the required minimum conventional lot size for a
dwelling within such a district. If the entire tract is not within a single
district, such total shall be calculated in the same manner for each portion of
the tract that is in a separate district and combined to determine the number
of dwelling units in the entire planned development.
   C.   In the regular golf course district and premier golf course district,
the density, minimum lot size and land uses permitted shall be as provided in
the regulations for such districts.
   D.   The land area of any lot in the R-1 and R-2 zoning districts shall be
not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet suitable for building
purposes. No portion of any lot which consists of a pond, lake, bog or swamp,
or any part of a pond, lake, bog or swamp shall be considered suitable for
building purposes.
   E.   Setback and yards as required for the district in which each lot of
record is located shall be complied with, except where such requirements are
specifically waived during the approval process. (1977 Code § ZR-7-2)
10-8-6: DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE:
In the R-1 and R-2 zoning districts, all open space lands resulting from the
reduction in the lot area requirements provided for in this chapter shall be
dedicated or conveyed to and accepted by an appropriate public agency. (1977
Code § ZR-7-2)
CHAPTER 9
BUILDING STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Dwelling Standards
10-9-2: Setbacks
10-9-3: Rear Line Coincident With Side Line
10-9-4: Accessory Structures And Accessory Vehicular Storage Structures
10-9-5: Vision At Intersections
10-9-6: Exceptions To Provisions
10-9-1: DWELLING STANDARDS:
Dwelling standards shall be those provided by the most current building codes
in effect at the time of applying the standards 1 . (1977 Code § ZR-8-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
10-9-2: SETBACKS:
In all districts, each building, structure, or part thereof, excluding fences,
hereafter erected or moved, shall be set back or located as specified in the
following rules:
   A.   Front yards shall be set back as follows:
      1.   From each road or street which is included in the primary system of
roads of the state (including all state bond issue routes and all primary
federal aid and state aid routes which are designated as a numbered state
highway), not less than eighty feet (80') from the established centerline, or
fifty feet (50') from the right of way line, whichever shall be the greater.
      2.   From each road or street which is included in the secondary highway
system of the state (including all state aid and federal aid secondary routes
not included in the primary system), not less than seventy feet (70') from the
established centerline.
      3.   From all other public roads or streets, not less than sixty feet
(60') from the established centerline. (1977 Code § ZR-8-2)
      4.   Where property is served by a private driveway, alley or easement,
the setback shall not be less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 913, 3-31-2003)
   B.   From each side line that does not border a road or street, the setback
shall be not less than ten percent (10%) of the average width of the lot or
plot, or ten feet (10'), whichever is greater; provided, however that
incidental buildings, detached from the main building, shall have a minimum
setback of ten feet (10') from the side and rear lot lines.
   C.   From the rear line, the setback shall not be less than forty feet (40')
or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is larger.
   D.   Notwithstanding the setbacks otherwise specified in this chapter, a new
or relocated residence need not be set back of the main front wall of the
nearest existing residence on the same side of the road or street in the same
block more than one foot (1') for each four feet (4') of distance between such
existing residence and such new or relocated residence. Where an existing
residence does not conform to setback regulations, any addition thereto shall
be set back not less than three feet (3') from the main front wall of such
residence, unless such addition complies with the setback regulations with a
lesser setback. (1977 Code § ZR-8-2; amd. Ord. 1010, 7-28-2003; 2004 Code)
10-9-3: REAR LINE COINCIDENT WITH SIDE LINE:
On a lot or plot whose rear line forms the side line of an adjoining plot, the
rear line setback shall not be less than the side yard setback required on the
adjoining lot or plot. (1977 Code § ZR-8-4)
10-9-4: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND ACCESSORY VEHICULAR STORAGE STRUCTURES:
In all residential districts, accessory buildings and structures and accessory
vehicular storage structures, except garages and fences, shall be located on
the rear one-third (1/3) of the plot, but need not be placed more than eighty
five feet (85') in back of the front of the lot or right of way. (1977 Code §
ZR-8-3)
10-9-5: VISION AT INTERSECTIONS:
Trees, shrubbery, hedges, fences or obstructions of any nature, located within
the open space provided by the building setback lines on corner plots next to
intersecting roads or streets, shall be so spaced, constructed, located,
trimmed, pruned or maintained so that drivers of converging vehicles are able
to view adequately each other's approach between the heights of four (4) to
seven feet (7') above the traveled roadways. This requirement shall also apply
to the required open space of platted lots next to an intersection of a
railroad and a road or street. (1977 Code § ZR-8-5)
10-9-6: EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
The following may be located within or be extended into the open spaces
required by the setbacks set out in this chapter:
   A.   First floor entrance steps, open terrace (without roofs or sides) and
underground structures.
   B.   Eaves, chimneys, bay windows and other ordinary building projections to
the extent of eighteen inches (18").
   C.   Main building entrance shelters smaller than thirty five (35) square
feet and not projecting more than six feet (6').
   D.   Boathouses incidental to residential use may project to the water's
edge. (1977 Code § ZR-8-6)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-10-1: General
10-10-2: Miscellaneous Signs Which Do Not Require Permit; Regulations
10-10-3: Signs That Require A Permit
10-10-4: Prohibited Signs
10-10-5: Enforcement
10-10-6: Variances And Appeals
10-10-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Scope Of Regulations: The provisions of this chapter shall govern and
control the location, erection, relocation, reconstruction, extension,
enlargement, conversion, replacement, alteration, operation, maintenance, and
removal of all signs within the Village visible from any street, sidewalk, or
public or private common open space, excluding only signs owned or maintained
by the Village. Any sign not expressly permitted by these regulations shall be
prohibited. The regulations of this chapter relate to the regulation of signs
within zoning districts and shall be in addition to the provisions of the
Building Code applicable to the construction and maintenance of signs.
   B.   Statement Of Purpose: The regulation of signs by this chapter is
intended to promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The
purpose of this chapter is to:
      1.   Regulate signs in such a manner that supports and complements land
use objectives that are set forth in the Zoning Code, Village Code, and
Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Ensure that all signs are compatible with regards to size, location,
color, construction, materials, and the manner of display.
      3.   Ensure that signs do not confuse, obstruct traffic vision, nor
endanger public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
   C.   Applicability: No sign shall hereafter be located, erected, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted, replaced, or altered except in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and after issuance of a sign
permit by the Village, if required, or in compliance with subsection E of this
section permitting signs without the issuance of a permit.
   D.   General Standards: Except as otherwise expressly provided in subsection
E of this section, the following general standards apply to all signs. Any sign
not in compliance with these standards shall be immediately corrected or shall
be deemed to be in violation of this chapter.
      1.   Illumination: Signs shall only be permitted to be illuminated in
accordance with the following regulations:
         a.   No sign can be self-illuminated or internally illuminated;
provided, however, that a business shall be permitted one internally
illuminated "Open" window sign not to exceed one square foot in area.
         b.   Neon illumination of signs is not permitted.
         c.   Any illumination of signs shall be constant in intensity and
color and there shall be no flashing lights, rotating lights, running lights,
or lights that create an illusion of movement.
         d.   No sign shall be illuminated in such a manner so as to cause
confusion with traffic signals or lights or which might constitute a traffic
hazard.
         e.   Any light source that is used to illuminate a sign must be
located, shielded, and directed as to not be visible from any point on any
surrounding streets, public property, adjacent private property or adjacent
structures. All artificial illumination shall be so designed, located,
shielded, and directed so that it illuminates the sign face area only and
prevents the casting of glare.
      2.   Sign Measurement: Unless otherwise expressly provided to the
contrary in these regulations, the term "sign area" shall include the gross
surface area of each sign with a single continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of the sign and in no case passing through or between any
adjacent elements of the sign. Such a perimeter shall not include any
structural or framing elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not
forming an integral part of the display.
      3.   Traffic Safety: No sign or sign structure shall be permitted or
maintained at any location where by reason of its position, size, shape,
design, or color it may obstruct, impair, obscure, or interfere with the views
of the vehicular driver, pedestrian, or cyclist. No sign will be permitted that
could be confused with any traffic control signal or device. No sign will be
permitted where it may interfere, confuse, or mislead traffic movement.
      4.   Maintenance: The owner of a sign and the owner of the premises on
which the sign is located shall be jointly and severally liable to maintain the
sign or signs in a clean and sanitary condition, free from rubbish and weeds,
and in overall good working order, including illumination sources, at all
times.
   E.   Signs That Do Not Require A Permit: The following permanent and
temporary signs may be erected and maintained in any district, unless otherwise
provided, without obtaining a sign permit, subject to the following
limitations:
      1.   Small Real Estate Signs:
         a.   Limitations: Two (2) small real estate signs per property for
sale. The maximum size for each real estate sign shall not exceed six (6)
square feet, and no such sign shall be illuminated. No real estate sign shall
project beyond the property line into the public right-of-way or onto private
property that is not owned by the party installing or owning the sign.
         b.   Temporary Small Real Estate Signs: Six (6) temporary real estate
signs, which shall include "Open House" signs, shall be permitted per property
or per principal structure. The maximum size for each real estate sign shall
not exceed six (6) square feet, and no such sign shall be illuminated. Any
temporary sign shall be removed within twenty four (24) hours of the open
house. No real estate sign shall project beyond the property line into the
public right-of-way or onto private property that is not owned by the party
installing or owning the sign.
      2.   Residential Nameplates: Two (2) nameplate signs shall be permitted
for each dwelling unit in a residential district only. The maximum size for
each nameplate sign shall not exceed one hundred forty four (144) square inches
in area, and no such sign shall be illuminated.
      3.   Window Signs: Window signs shall be permitted when located on the
interior side of a window. The aggregate area of all such window signs shall
not exceed more than ten percent (10%) of the total area of the window.
Illuminated window signs shall be permitted, subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
      4.   Seasonal Or Noncommercial Signs: Seasonal or noncommercial signs
shall be permitted for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days. The maximum size
for such signs shall not exceed ten (10) square feet in area. (Ord. 1310A, 12-
20-2017)
10-10-2: MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS WHICH DO NOT REQUIRE PERMIT; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Political Campaign Signs: Political campaign signs shall be allowed
only on private property and with owner permission under the following
conditions:
      1.   Signs will not exceed five (5) square feet in size.
      2.   All signage must provide for clear sight for traffic safety.
      3.   No signs are allowed within the rights-of-way of roads and highways
or on any other publicly owned property.
   B.   Political Message Signs: Political message signs shall be permitted.
The maximum size for each political message sign shall not exceed six (6)
square feet, and no such sign shall be illuminated. No such political message
sign shall project beyond the property line into the public right-of-way or
onto private property that is not owned by the party installing or owning the
sign.
   C.   Street Signs: Signs giving names of streets shall be erected at all
street intersections. Such signs shall meet the minimum requirements as set
forth in the "Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways", as prepared and published by the Department of Public Works and
Buildings, State of Illinois, and the Village street sign design standards. The
developer shall also promptly install any and all regulatory traffic signs
deemed necessary by the Village. The developer shall install temporary street
signs during the period of construction as soon as the property is accessible
by vehicles and maintain such signs until permanent signs are installed.
   D.   Conservancy Signs: Signs identifying conservancy easements shall be
posted on all properties that have been designated a conservancy, a woodland
conservancy, or a scenic easement. Such signs shall be installed prior to the
issuance of a building permit and commencement of any construction on the
property. The signs shall not exceed fourteen inches by eighteen inches (14" x
18") or two hundred fifty two (252) square inches. These signs shall indicate
the conservancy and establish that these areas are not to be disturbed.
   E.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Public/Legal Notices: Temporary signs that indicate either a public
hearing or are a required legal notice may be installed on the property;
provided, however, that such signs shall not be located within the vision
triangle nor constitute a public safety hazard.
      2.   Other Temporary Signs: Temporary use signs shall be permitted. All
such signs shall be removed within twenty four (24) hours after the event and
shall not exceed six (6) square feet. (Ord. 1310A, 12-20-2017)
10-10-3: SIGNS THAT REQUIRE A PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in subsection 10-10-1E
and section
10-10-2 of this chapter, and by the standards of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to erect, construct, move, alter, or maintain any sign
without first having made application for and obtained a sign permit from the
Village and having paid the applicable permit fee. The Village shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of sign permit applications.
   B.   Signs Requiring A Permit: The following permanent and temporary signs
require a permit pursuant to this section:
      1.   Large Real Estate Signs:
         a.   Real Estate Signs: One real estate sign shall be permitted on a
property that contains at least two (2) acres in area. The maximum size of a
real estate sign shall not exceed eighteen (18) square feet in area, and no
such sign shall be illuminated. All such signs shall be removed within twenty
four (24) hours of the closing of the lease or sale of the property.
         b.   Commercial Real Estate Signs: One commercial real estate sign per
development shall be permitted. All such signs shall not exceed twenty four
(24) square feet in area, and no such sign shall be illuminated. All such signs
shall be removed within seven (7) days of the closing of the sale or lease of
the property.
      2.   Construction Signs: One temporary construction sign shall be
permitted. The maximum size of a temporary construction sign shall not exceed
eighteen (18) square feet in area, and no such sign shall be illuminated.
Construction signs shall be removed at the time a permanent sign is installed
or a certificate of occupancy is issued, whichever occurs first.
      3.   Subdivision Signs: A sign identifying the location and name of a
subdivision may be installed at the entrance of the subdivision, subject to
compliance with the following standards:
         a.   Number Of Signs: No more than two (2) subdivision identification
signs shall be permitted for each subdivision. (Ord. 1310A, 12-20-2017)
         b.   Size: The total area of the subdivision identification signs
permitted by this section shall not exceed forty (40) square feet in dimension.
(Ord. 1310B, 5-23-2018)
         c.   Lighting: A subdivision identification sign may be illuminated,
subject to compliance with the following standards:
            (1)   Type Of Lighting: A subdivision identification sign may
utilize one of the following methods of illumination: sign mounted canopy light
or ground mounted spotlight. Only white or clear incandescent illumination
sources shall be permitted.
            (2)   Direction Of Illumination: The illumination source shall only
be directed onto the face of the subdivision identification sign.
            (3)   Visibility Of Illumination Source: The illumination source or
filament shall not be visible from adjacent properties.
            (4)   Maximum Illumination: The maximum illumination for a
subdivision identification sign shall not exceed two (2) foot- candles within a
distance of one foot (1') from the surface of the subdivision identification
sign and shall not emit any measurable illumination (i.e., 0 foot-candles) at
the property line most proximate to a subdivision identification sign.
            (5)   General Restrictions: The illumination of the subdivision
identification sign shall comply with the provisions of subsection 10-10-1D1 of
this chapter.
      4.   Business District Signage: The cumulative size of all signs
permitted by this title shall be governed by the square footage of the
associated business as follows:
         a.   Limit Of Signs: Unless otherwise expressly provided to the
contrary in these regulations, the limit of signs per business establishment is
one ground sign, one nameplate sign, and one wall sign or one canopy sign. Such
signs singularly or in combination, shall not exceed the maximum permitted sign
area. (Ord. 1310A, 12-20-2017)
         b.   Total Square Footage: The cumulative total square footage for all
signs shall not exceed the following:
   MAXIMUM SIGN AREA PERMITTED IN
   BUSINESS ZONING DISTRICTS IN SQUARE FEET
 
Total Area Of      Maximum Sign In Square
Business In Square Feet                   No Arterial Access Arterial Access
Feet
1 - 1,000          12                     12                 20
1,001 - 3,000      20                     20                 30
3,001 - 5,000      30                     30                 40
5,001 or greater   30                     301                502
 
   Notes:
      1.    For each additional 2,000 square feet greater than 5,000 square
feet, an additional 10 square feet of signage is permitted. The maximum total
signage area shall not exceed 40 square feet.
      2.    For each additional 2,000 square feet greater than 5,000 square
feet, an additional 10 square feet of signage is permitted. The maximum total
signage area shall not exceed 64 square feet.
   (Ord. 1310B, 5-23-2018)
         c.   Nameplate Signs: These signs are only permitted in business
districts. Nameplates shall not exceed one hundred forty four (144) square
inches per sign area and shall be limited to one for each business
establishment.
         d.   Business Development Identification Signs: These signs are
permitted for developments adjacent to four (4) or more divided lanes provided
that the development has two (2) or more businesses and uses and is located on
a property of a minimum of five (5) acres in size. The sign shall be located at
the entrance of a street, can only be a ground sign, and shall be no greater
than ten feet (10') in height. The maximum overall square footage of such a
sign is fifty (50) square feet in size. Only two (2) such signs are permitted
per entrance or street/right-of-way frontage. A maximum of six (6) tenant signs
can be included on the development identification sign.
         e.   Gas Station Signage: One wall sign is permitted in association
with a gas station use, which shall not exceed eighteen (18) square feet in
size. One ground sign is permitted in association with a gas station use that
shall not exceed forty (40) square feet in size. Customary identification signs
that are integral to the gas station use shall be permitted not to exceed six
(6) square feet.
         f.   Temporary Banner Signage: One temporary banner is permitted for
up to one week per property, and shall not exceed a maximum of eighteen (18)
square feet in size. (Ord. 1310A, 12-20-2017)
10-10-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   The following signs and types of signs shall be prohibited:
      1.   Flashing Or Moving Signs: Any sign that is wholly or partially
illuminated by flashing lights or intermittent lights, any raceway sign, or any
sign that moves or creates the illusion of moving shall be prohibited.
      2.   Portable Signs: Any portable sign shall be prohibited. Examples of
such signs are signs that have trailer hitches, signs on wheels, signs that can
be transported to and from various locations and portable signs with internally
illuminated boards.
      3.   Off Site Advertising Signs: Any sign that directs attention to a
business, service or commodity that is offered, conducted or sold at another
location than the location of the sign shall be prohibited, including any signs
advertising a business no longer operating or holding a property interest in
the premises on which the sign is displayed.
      4.   Painted Wall Signs: Any wall sign that is applied with paint or a
similar substance on the face of a wall, building or structure shall be
prohibited.
      5.   Signs On Trees Or Utility Poles: Any sign that is attached to a tree
or utility pole whether on public or private property shall be prohibited.
      6.   Bench Or Seating Signage: Any bench or seating used for any form of
advertising shall be prohibited.
      7.   Vehicle Signs: Any commercial vehicle used for the sole purpose of
advertising a business by parking the vehicle anywhere in the Village shall be
prohibited.
      8.   Roof Signs: Any roof sign shall be prohibited.
      9.   Signage On Village Property Or Right-Of-Way: Any sign on Village
property or public right-of-way without the Village's or respective public
body's consent shall be prohibited. (Ord. 1310A, 12-20-2017)
10-10-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Authority: The Building and Zoning Officer is hereby
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Inspection: The Building and Zoning Officer may inspect, at such times
as he deems necessary, each sign or sign structure regulated by this chapter
for the purpose of ascertaining whether the sign is in compliance with this
chapter or any other relevant Village Code, law or ordinance.
   C.   Unsafe And Unlawful Signs; Immediate Removal:
      1.   Should the Building and Zoning Officer find any sign regulated by
this chapter to be unsafe, unlawful or a menace to the public, or constructed,
erected or maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter, he or she
shall cause notice to be given to the holder of the permit and the owner or
person in possession of the property.
      2.   If the holder of the permit, the owner or person in possession of
the property should fail to remove the sign or bring the sign or other
advertising structure in compliance within the time specified in the notice,
the Building and Zoning Officer may cause, at the holder(s) or property owner
(s) expense, the sign or other advertising structure to be removed or brought
into compliance.
      3.   If the holder or owner fails to pay the costs and expenses of such
repair or removal within thirty (30) days of the notice, then such costs and
expenses shall become a lien against the property. In addition, the Building
and Zoning Officer shall refuse to issue a sign permit to any holder or owner
who refuses to pay the costs and expenses assessed under this section.
      4.   In addition to the foregoing provisions of this subsection C, the
Building and Zoning Officer may cause any sign or other advertising structure
which is in immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily
without notice.
      5.   In addition to the costs, charges and expenses imposed by this
chapter, fines and penalties provided for by other chapters of the Village Code
may be imposed. (Ord. 1310A, 12-20-2017)
10-10-6: VARIANCES AND APPEALS:
All requests for variations of the regulations of this chapter shall be made by
an applicant to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
make a recommendation to the Village President and Board of Trustees. (Ord.
1310A, 12-20-2017)
CHAPTER 11
FENCES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Definitions
10-11-2: General Regulations
10-11-3: Pool Fence Regulations
10-11-4: Maintenance Of Fences
10-11-5: Waterways, Wetlands, Floodplains And Ponds
10-11-6: Fences At Road Intersections
10-11-7: Dog Runs
10-11-8: Enforcement And Penalties
10-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
FENCE: A barrier, other than a building, erected to partially or completely
enclose land, screen land or to provide for the safety of persons relative to
swimming pools. This chapter does not regulate the use of landscape vegetation.
FENCE, GARDEN: Any permanent or temporary fence, designed for the protection of
vegetation.
FENCE HEIGHT: The distance between the topmost element in the fence and the
adjacent underlying grade.
FRONT YARD: The open space extending the full width of the lot between the
front facade of the building and front lot line.
HOT TUB: A pool that has a maximum capacity of less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) gallons and has a maximum depth not greater than forty inches
(40") when full. A hot tub can be heated or unheated and may also include
personal athletic pools that meet the same size conditions noted above for hot
tubs.
UNDERLYING GRADE: The average grade measured over a length of three feet (3')
perpendicular to the exterior side of the fence. (Ord. 1064, 7-25-2005; amd.
Ord. 1302, 5-24-2017)
10-11-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   No fence shall be located in a front yard, except to contain horses in
the R-1 Zoning District.
   B.   Except as otherwise permitted or required by this chapter or by this
Code, no fence shall be more than forty two inches (42") in height at any
point, including vertical posts, columns, or pillars, except fences to contain
horses in the R-1 Zoning District may be sixty inches (60") in height. (Ord.
1260, 2-25-2015)
   C.   All fences shall be constructed of wood, stone, brick, wrought iron,
aluminum, or synthetic materials that are molded and give the appearance of
wood, stone, brick or wrought iron fences. No barbed wire, razor wire, other
sharp or hazardous materials are allowed for use on any type of fence. No
aboveground electrically charged fences are permitted. Underground magnetically
coupled dog fences (commonly known as invisible fences) are allowed. No fence
or part thereof that is of the form, shape or structure of a chainlink, or
meshlike, or wire fabric, made of any material (including, but not limited to,
metal or plastic) is permitted.
   D.   All framing and posts on a fence shall face the interior of the
property on which the fence is erected unless the fence is double sided where
the framing and posts may face each other.
   E.   All fences must be located completely within the property which the
fence is serving.
   F.   Every fence shall be constructed with at least fifty percent (50%) open
space between the elements of which the fence is constructed in order that one
may see through the fence when viewed in a direction perpendicular to the
fence.
   G.   All fences shall comply with all applicable Village Building and other
Code provisions. All fences shall be constructed and maintained to preserve
their structural integrity and appearance.
   H.   No person shall construct a column, pillar, post, or other supporting
element of a wall or fence that exceeds twelve inches (12") in width.
   I.   Existing fences that were constructed prior to the adoption date hereof
that do not meet or conform to the provisions of this chapter may be maintained
as long as no part of the fence is or becomes unsafe, dilapidated, or a
nuisance. (Ord. 1064, 7-25-2005)
   J.   Garden fences may be allowed without any permit being required, subject
to the following conditions and restrictions:
      1.   No garden fence shall be allowed in the front yard of any property.
      2.   The area enclosed by one (1) or more garden fences on any property
shall not exceed three percent (3.0%) of the total area of the property on
which the garden fence is located.
      3.   No garden fence shall exceed eight feet (8') in height.
      4.   No garden fence shall be located within the primary septic field
area of any property.
      5.   Garden fences shall not be constructed of chain link wire, barbwire,
razor wire, corrugated metal, snow fence material or be of stockade type.
      6.   Subsections B, F, and H of this section shall not apply to garden
fences. (Ord. 1302, 5-24-2017)
10-11-3: POOL FENCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   All pool fences shall comply with Village Code provisions and
regulations which apply to swimming pools, including appendix G of the
International Residential Code, except as follows:
      1.   Hot tubs may utilize, in lieu of a fence, a safety cover capable of
supporting a weight of one hundred (100) pounds across any one foot (1') radius
area of the covered hot tub within any region of the cover. (Ord. 1064, 7-25-
2005)
10-11-4: MAINTENANCE OF FENCES:
   A.   A fence shall be maintained in sound structural condition so as not to
endanger life or property. Any fence which, through lack of repair, type of
construction, or otherwise, imperils life or property, shall be deemed a
nuisance. The Village shall notify the owner of the property on which such a
fence is located of the existence of such nuisance. The owner must abate said
nuisance within thirty (30) days after such notice is sent by the Village by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or is hand delivered to a resident of
the property who is over the age of fourteen (14) years. In the case of
immediate danger to life or property the Village may require immediate
abatement. (Ord. 1064, 7-25-2005)
10-11-5: WATERWAYS, WETLANDS, FLOODPLAINS AND PONDS:
No fences shall be permitted within any waterways, wetlands, floodplains or
ponds, or otherwise as prohibited by Village Code provisions regulating
waterways, wetlands, floodplains and ponds. (Ord. 1064, 7-25-2005)
10-11-6: FENCES AT ROAD INTERSECTIONS:
The North Barrington area is made up of primarily hilly topography with a
rather thick arboreal landscape. This naturally has required the lanes, roads,
and highways to conform, frequently leading to winding and up-down road
formats. Consequently, traffic ingress and egress, between the Village lanes,
roads, driveways and arterial roads requires caution. In the interest of
traffic safety, visibility at road intersections must not be obstructed. No
fence located at a street intersection may exceed three feet (3') in height for
a distance of twenty five feet (25') in each direction from the intersection.
(Ord. 1064, 7-25-2005)
10-11-7: DOG RUNS:
   A.   Fences for dog runs are permitted subject to the following:
      1.   Dog run fences are limited to a single enclosure of a maximum of one
hundred (100) square feet in size and must be attached to the primary
residential structure on the property.
      2.   No one (1) side of the fence shall exceed twenty feet (20') in
length.
      3.   All dog fences must be located in the rear yard.
      4.   Chainlink fences are permitted but shall not exceed seven feet (7')
in height. (Ord. 1064, 7-25-2005)
10-11-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person or entity who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction,
subject to a fine that will not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense. Each day that violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 1064, 7-25-2005)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-12-1: Application For Permit; Required Information
10-12-2: Fees
10-12-3: Variations
10-12-4: Amendments
10-12-5: Enforcing Officer
10-12-6: Penalties
10-12-1: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REQUIRED INFORMATION:
In addition to any drawing, plat, document and other information required
pursuant to this title, each applicant for a building permit shall file such
additional drawings, plats, documents and information as may be required by
other ordinances and/or this code. (1977 Code § ZR-1-5)
10-12-2: FEES 1 :
Fees for all permits required herein and fees for filing appeals and petitions
to the Zoning Board of Appeals, Plan Commission or the Board of Trustees shall
be as established by a resolution or ordinance of the Board of Trustees. All
fees shall be collected at the time of application by the Village Clerk who
shall account for the same to the Village Treasurer. (1977 Code § ZR-1-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-8-5 of this code for property development cost provisions
  and section 1-8-7 of this code for road fee and deposit requirements.
10-12-3: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Application For Variation: An application for a variation of the
regulations of this title may be made by a property owner to the Zoning Board
of Appeals. Such application shall be made in writing stating the variation
requested and the cause for the variation. (1977 Code § ZR-1-4)
   B.   Public Hearing Notice Provisions; Sign To Be Posted On Property: No
variation shall be made except after a public hearing before the Zoning Board
of Appeals of which there shall be at least fifteen (15) days' notice of the
time and place of such hearing published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the Village. Said notice shall contain the particular location for which the
variation is requested (the "subject property") as well as a brief statement of
what the proposed variation consists. A copy of such notice shall be delivered
in person or mailed by first class mail as provided herein not less than ten
(10) days in advance of the hearing to all owners of property within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the subject property (excluding in such
measurement rights of way of streets and roads), but in no event shall notice
be given to less than three (3) closest property owners on the same side of the
street and, in addition, three (3) closest property owners on the opposite side
of the street from the petitioner's property; provided, however, that for the
purpose of this section, ownership may be determined on the basis of the last
available tax records of the county. Mailings shall be accomplished by the
Village staff, to whom the applicant shall deliver unsealed, addressed and
stamped envelopes not less than thirteen (13) days in advance of the date of
the hearing.
In addition to the published newspaper notice and mailed or delivered notice as
provided in this subsection, the Village Clerk or the designee of the Village
Clerk shall post on the property for which a variation is sought, in a location
generally perpendicular to each adjoining street and reasonably visible from
each adjoining street, a two (2) sided sign approximately three feet by two
feet (3' x 2') in size stating substantially as follows:
 
Village of North Barrington       Letters are 2 inches
Notice of Zoning Hearing          Letters are 2 inches
This Property is the Subject of a Letters are 15/8 inches
Request for Zoning Variation      Letters are 15/8 inches
For Information Contact the       Letters are 15/8 inches
Village at 847/381-6000           Letters are 15/8 inches
 
In the case of property fronting on two (2) or more streets, such sign shall be
posted on each street.
Said sign shall be posted not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of
the public hearing and shall be removed within five (5) days after the
conclusion of the public hearing. (Ord. 1160, 5-27-2009)
   C.   Public Hearing; Findings Of Fact; Recommendation: The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall consider the case at a public hearing, not less than fifteen (15)
days' notice of which shall have been given as prescribed by statute, and shall
determine whether or not the facts are such as to warrant a variation from this
title. If the Zoning Board of Appeals determines, by a concurring vote of not
less than four (4) members, that practical difficulties or particular hardships
do in fact exist, and that the proposed variation or some modification of it
will not:
      1.   Reduce or increase unreasonably the minimum or maximum areas or
dimensions;
      2.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
      3.   Increase the congestion in public streets unreasonably;
      4.   Increase the hazard of fire;
      5.   Endanger the public safety;
      6.   Diminish or impair the values of property within the surrounding
area; or
      7.   In any other respect, impair the public health, safety, comfort,
morals and welfare of the people,
it shall submit such findings and a recommendation that the Board of Trustees
adopt an ordinance granting the variation. Any proposed variation which fails
to receive the approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be passed
except by the favorable vote of four (4) members of the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Tax Payments To Be Current: No petition for a variation shall be
accepted unless the applicant submits such satisfactory evidence that there are
no unpaid real estate taxes.
   E.   Time Limit On Variations: No ordinance for a variation permitting the
erection or alteration of a building, or permitting the use of a building or
premises shall be valid for a period longer than six (6) months unless such use
is established within said period; provided, however, that where such use
permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such
ordinance shall continue in full force and effect if a building permit for such
erection or alteration is obtained within said six (6) month period and said
erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with
the terms of such permit; provided, however, that the term of such variation
may be extended by the Board of Trustees upon recommendation by the Zoning
Board of Appeals for a period or for periods not to exceed a total of three (3)
years from the original grant of variation, whether or not such extension is
sought within the initial six (6) months of the variation, and in making its
recommendation to the Board of Trustees relative to such extension, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall not be required to hold a public hearing or give notice
of its pending review of the matter, but may do so in its discretion, and shall
do so if so directed by the Village Board. (1977 Code § ZR-1-4)
10-12-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority; Public Hearing Required: Any owner, the Plan Commission, or
the Board of Trustees may apply for amendment in the text of this title and the
zoning map. No amendment shall be made by the Board of Trustees without a
public hearing before the Village Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall
hold a public hearing and submit its recommendation to the Board of Trustees
within ninety (90) days. (1977 Code § ZR-1-9)
   B.   Public Hearing Notice Provisions; Sign To Be Posted On Property: No
amendment to this title shall be made without a hearing before the Plan
Commission. At least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Village. Except in the case of a text amendment of general applicability, a
copy of such notice shall be delivered in person or mailed not less than ten
(10) days in advance of the hearing to all owners of property within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the subject property (excluding in such
measurement rights of way of streets and roads) but in no event shall notice be
given to less than three (3) closest property owners on the same side of the
street and, in addition, three (3) closest property owners on the opposite side
of the street from the petitioner's property; provided, however, that for the
purpose of this section, ownership may be determined on the basis of the last
available tax records of the county. Mailings shall be accomplished by the
Village staff, to whom the applicant shall deliver unsealed, addressed and
stamped envelopes not less than thirteen (13) days in advance of the date of
the hearing.
In addition to the published newspaper notice and mailed or delivered notice as
provided in this subsection, the Village Clerk or the designee of the Village
Clerk shall post on the subject property for which an amendment is sought, or
to which a text amendment relates in a location generally perpendicular to the
adjoining street and reasonably visible from each adjoining street, a two (2)
sided sign approximately three feet by two feet (3' x 2') in size stating
substantially as follows:
 
Village of North Barrington       Letters are 2 inches
Notice of Zoning Hearing          Letters are 2 inches
This Property is the Subject of a Letters are 15/8 inches
Request for Zoning Change         Letters are 15/8 inches
For Information Contact the       Letters are 15/8 inches
Village at 847/381-6000           Letters are 15/8 inches
 
In the case of property fronting on two (2) or more streets, such sign shall be
posted on each street.
Said sign shall be posted not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of
the public hearing and shall be removed within five (5) days after the
conclusion of the public hearing. (Ord. 1160, 5-27-2009)
   C.   Adoption Of Amendment: The Board of Trustees, without further public
hearing, may adopt or deny any proposed amendment.
   D.   Tax Payments To Be Current: No petition filed by an owner shall be
accepted unless the applicant submits satisfactory evidence that there are no
unpaid real estate taxes. (1977 Code § ZR-1-9)
10-12-5: ENFORCING OFFICER:
The Building and Zoning Officer is hereby designated as the enforcing officer
of this title. He shall make inspections and, for that purpose, may enter
buildings, structures and premises, shall administer and enforce the provisions
hereof and, to that end, shall make such orders, requirements, decisions and
determinations as are necessary with respect to application for permits and the
enforcement of this title. (1977 Code § ZR-1-10)
10-12-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm, company or corporation who
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to arrest and, upon conviction, subject
to a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. Each
day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Remedies: In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, the proper authorities of
the Village, or any person whose property is or may be affected as to value or
use by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings in law or in equity:
      1.   To prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair conversion, maintenance or use;
      2.   To restrain, correct or abate such violation;
      3.   To prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land; or
      4.   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about
said premises. (1977 Code § ZR-1-10)
TITLE 11
CULVERTS AND RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS
CHAPTER 1
CULVERT INSTALLATIONS OTHER THAN WITHIN RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
11-1-1: Applicability
11-1-2: Provisions
11-1-3: Culvert Materials
11-1-1: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to culvert installations not governed by section
9-1-12 of this Village code (which applies to developments, including
subdivisions). (Ord. 1142, 4-23-2008)
11-1-2: PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all culvert installations which
are not governed by the provisions of section
9-1-12 of this Village code. (Ord. 1142, 4-23-2008)
11-1-3: CULVERT MATERIALS:
Culverts located within the right of way of public streets, whether under
driveways or under the streets themselves, as well as culverts under driveways
located on private property, shall be constructed under the supervision of the
Village Engineer and shall be constructed of one of the following materials and
shall have the following specifications:
   A.   Reinforced concrete; or
   B.   Corrugated polyethylene with smooth interior; or
   C.   Polyvinyl chloride.
All flared end sections, fittings and specials shall match the pipe in all
respects. It is preferred that all portions of such pipe which are visible
after installation has been completed be a neutral color.
All pipe, except reinforced concrete, shall have at least twelve inches (12")
of cover from the top of the pipe to the bottom of the hard surface pavement,
except where lesser cover is authorized by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 1142, 4-
23-2008)
CHAPTER 2
RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Applicability
11-2-2: Provisions
11-2-3: Surface Of Driveway Adjoining Roadway Pavement
11-2-4: Variations And Exceptions
11-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to all residential driveways not subject to the provisions
of title 9 of this village code. (Ord. 1231, 1-23-2013)
11-2-2: PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all residential driveways which
are not subject to the provisions of title 9 of this village code. (Ord. 1231,
1-23-2013)
11-2-3: SURFACE OF DRIVEWAY ADJOINING ROADWAY PAVEMENT:
The portions of driveway surfaces of all driveways hereafter installed which
are within three feet (3') of the pavement of an adjoining public roadway shall
be composed of the same material and at the same grade as such public roadway.
(Ord. 1231, 1-23-2013)
11-2-4: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
Any person seeking a variation or an exception to the provisions of this
chapter may seek such variation or exception from the Zoning Board Of Appeals
which may grant or deny such variation or exception as a final decision of the
village, upon such notice to adjoining property owners as may be deemed
appropriate by the Building And Zoning Officer. (Ord. 1231, 1-23-2013)
TITLE 12
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Establishment Of Administrative Adjudication System
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: Administrative Adjudication Procedures Not Exclusive
12-1-4: Code Hearing Division
12-1-5: Instituting Code Hearing Proceedings
12-1-6: Rules Of Evidence Shall Not Govern
12-1-7: Subpoenas And Defaults
12-1-8: Continuances
12-1-9: Rights Of Occupants
12-1-10: Findings, Decision, And Order
12-1-11: Sanctions Applicable To Owner
12-1-12: Rental Property Owners
12-1-13: Judicial Review
12-1-14: Enforcement Of Judgment
12-1-15: Application For Grants
12-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM:
The Village of North Barrington, pursuant to authority of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2.2-1 et seq., and 5/11–31.1-1 et seq., hereby establishes the
procedure of a system of administrative adjudication for the adjudication of
the Village's code violations, including building code violations, to the
extent permitted by the Illinois constitution. As used in this chapter, a
"system of administrative adjudication" means the adjudication of any violation
of the Village code of North Barrington including building code violations
except for any offense under the Illinois vehicle code, or any similar offense
that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for
any reportable offenses under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 .
(Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/6-204.
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, words or terms shall have the following meanings
unless the context or usage clearly indicates that another meaning is intended:
BUILDING CODE: Any Village ordinance, housing or building code or zoning
ordinance that establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire
prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable
to structures in the Village or any Village ordinance that requires, after
notice, the cutting of weeds, the removal of garbage and debris, the removal of
inoperable vehicles or the abatement of nuisances from private property.
CODE: Any Village code or ordinance, including any "building code", as defined
in this section, except for any offense under the Illinois vehicle code or a
similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles
and except for a reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle
code 1 .
OCCUPANT: A person who resides in or is in possession of real property.
PROPERTY OWNER: The legal or beneficial owner of real or personal property.
(Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/6-204.
12-1-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The adoption by the Village of a system of administrative adjudication
procedures does not preclude the Village from using other methods to enforce
municipal ordinances, including, but not limited to, relief in the circuit
court for the 19th judicial circuit, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-
2010)
12-1-4: CODE HEARING DIVISION:
   A.   There is hereby established a code hearing division in the Village. The
code hearing division shall have jurisdiction to adjudicate any violation of
any provision of the Village Code of North Barrington (previously and
hereinafter referred to as "Code violations") including Building Code
violations except for any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or any
similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles
and except for any reportable offenses under section 6-204 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code 1 . (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
   B.   Adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by a Hearing Officer who
shall be appointed pursuant to other provisions of the Village Code. The powers
and duties of the Hearing Officer shall include: (Ord. 1303, 5-24-2017)
      1.   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the Code violations;
      2.   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon request of the parties or their representatives;
      3.   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all the
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      4.   Issuing a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether a Code violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order,
including the fine, penalty, or action with which the defendant must comply;
and (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
      5.   Imposing penalties consistent with the applicable Code provisions
and assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation,
except, however, that in no event shall the Hearing Officer have the authority
to: a) impose a penalty of incarceration, or b) impose a fine or collect
delinquencies due to the Village in excess of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each Village Code violation (except for Heritage Tree
violations), being the limitation imposed by Illinois Statute, provided that
each day of such violation may be subject to an additional fine of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Nothing in this section shall constitute a
limitation on the jurisdiction of hearing officers to impose other fines or
collect delinquencies due to the Village. (Ord. 1303, 5-24-2017)
   C.   Prior to conducting the administrative adjudication proceedings, the
Hearing Officer shall have successfully completed a formal training program,
which includes the following:
      1.   Instructions on rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which they will conduct;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the Code violations that they
will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
In addition, the Hearing Officer must be an attorney who has been licensed to
practice law in the State of Illinois for at least three (3) years. (Ord. 1195,
11-17-2010)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/6-204.
12-1-5: INSTITUTING CODE HEARING PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   When the Village President, Village Administrator, Village Building and
Zoning Officer, Village Code Compliance Officer, Village Forester or other
individual authorized to issue a Code violation, makes a determination of a
Code violation, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation
notice and report form that indicates: 1) the name and address of the
defendant, 2) the type and nature of the violation, 3) the date and time the
violation was observed, 4) the names of witnesses to the violation and 5) in
the case of a Building Code violation, the address of the property where the
violation was observed. The violation report form shall be forwarded to the
Code Hearing Division where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of
the report and a hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces provided for
that purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than thirty (30)
nor more than forty (40) days after the notice is served. One (1) copy of the
violation notice and report form shall be maintained in the files of the Code
Hearing Division and shall be part of the record of the hearing, one (1) copy
of the report form shall be returned to the individual representing the Village
in the case so that he or she may prepare evidence of the Code violation for
presentation at the hearing on the date indicated, and one (1) copy of the
report form shall be served either in person or by first class mail to the
defendant along with a summons commanding the defendant to appear at the
hearing. In regard to a Building Code violation, if the name of the property
owner cannot be ascertained or if the service cannot be made by mail, service
may be made on the owner by posting or nailing a copy of the violation report
form on the front door of the structure where the violation is found, not less
than twenty (20) days before the hearing is scheduled.
   B.   Parties shall be given notice of an adjudicatory hearing which includes
the type and nature of the code violation to be adjudicated, the date and
location of the adjudicatory hearing, the legal authority and jurisdiction
under which the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for failure to appear
at the hearing.
   C.   Parties shall be provided with an opportunity to give testimony at the
adjudicatory hearing and may be represented by counsel, present witnesses, and
cross examine opposing witnesses. Parties may request the hearing officer to
issue subpoenas to direct attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and
the production of relevant documents. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
12-1-6: RULES OF EVIDENCE SHALL NOT GOVERN:
The formal and technical rules of evidence do not apply in the adjudicatory
hearing permitted under this chapter. Evidence, including hearsay, may be
admitted only if it is a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
12-1-7: SUBPOENAS AND DEFAULTS:
At any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing officer assigned to hear the
case may, at the request of either party, direct witness to appear and give
testimony at the hearing. If on the date set for hearing, the defendant or his
or her attorney fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the defendant in
default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the
existence of a code violation. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
12-1-8: CONTINUANCES:
No continuance shall be authorized by the hearing officer in proceedings under
this chapter except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to
protect the rights of the parties. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for
a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a hearing officer under this
chapter shall not exceed twenty five (25) days. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
12-1-9: RIGHTS OF OCCUPANTS:
In the case of a building code violation only, no action for eviction,
abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or other similar
proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an occupant of a dwelling
solely because such occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a code violation
hearing. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
12-1-10: FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER:
At the conclusion of the hearing the hearing officer shall make a
determination, on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing, of
whether or not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing
and shall be designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision
and order shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision
whether or not a code violation exists based on the findings of fact, and an
order that states the sanction which may include an order to correct the
violation, or dismisses the case if a violation is not proved. In the case of a
code violation other than a building code violation, if a violation is proved,
a monetary sanction shall not exceed the amount provided for in section
1-2-1 of the Illinois municipal code 1 , currently seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per day of violation. In the case of a building code violation, if a
code violation is proved, the order may also impose the sanctions that are
provided in the code for the violation proved. A copy of the findings, decision
and order shall be served on the owner or defendant within five (5) days after
they are issued. Service shall be made by first class mail. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-
2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
12-1-11: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO OWNER:
The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the Village
as a result of a finding of a code violation under this chapter shall attach to
the property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a finding of a
code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring
the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property
takes subject to the findings, decision and order of a hearing officer under
this chapter. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
12-1-12: RENTAL PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   The owner of a building located in the Village who, directly or
indirectly, had collected, or caused to be collected, rentals from an occupant
of that building during a period in which the number of apartments or family
units in that building exceeded the number permitted for that building by an
ordinance of the Village, is liable to any such occupant in an amount equal to
not more than three (3) times the amount of any rentals paid by any such
occupant, or in his or her behalf, together with court costs and reasonable
attorney fees. If the occupant is a recipient of public aid under article III,
IV, or VI of the "Illinois public aid code", approved April 11, 1967, as
amended, in whose behalf vendor payment of the rental was made by the Illinois
department of public aid, the department of human services (acting as successor
to the department of public aid under the department of human services act), or
a local governmental unit, as the case may be, the liability as herein provided
is to the Illinois department of public aid, the department of human services
(acting as successor to the department of public aid under the department of
human services act), or the local governmental unit making the vendor payment
of the rental.
   B.   For the purposes of this section:
      1.   "Owner" means the legal or beneficial owner of a building.
      2.   "Family unit" means a room or group of rooms used or intended to be
used as a housekeeping unit for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. The fact
that any such family unit is used or intended to be used for cooking or eating
accommodations in common with another family unit in any such building does not
preclude liability hereunder.
   C.   No liability accrues under this section until thirty (30) days after
the owner of record of a building has been notified in writing that such owner
is in violation of any such Village ordinance. Such notice shall be personally
served upon such owner of record or sent by registered mail to the last known
address of such owner. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
12-1-13: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
and shall be subject to review under the Illinois administrative review law and
all amendments and modifications thereto. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
12-1-14: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois administrative
review law are a debt due and owing to the Village and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under
administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of the code
violation, the Village may commence a proceeding in the circuit court of the
19th judicial circuit, Lake County, Illinois, for the purpose of obtaining a
judgment on the findings, decision, and order. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the Village from the consolidation of multiple findings, decisions, and
orders against a person in such a proceeding.
   C.   Upon commencement of an action to obtain a judgment on the findings,
decisions and order, the Village shall file a certified copy of the findings,
decision and order, which shall be accompanied by a certification that recites
facts sufficient to show that the findings, decision, and order was issued in
accordance with this chapter and the applicable municipal ordinances.
   D.   Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may be by any method
provided for in section 2-203 of the code of civil procedure 1 , or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amount of
fines, other sanctions, and costs imposed by the findings, decision, and order
in any one proceeding does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00).
   E.   If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision, and order was
entered in accordance with the requirements of this section and the applicable
village ordinances and that the defendant had an opportunity for a hearing
under this section and for judicial review as provided in this chapter:
      1.   The court shall render judgment in favor of the Village and against
the defendant for the amount indicated in the findings, decision, and order,
plus costs. The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced in the
same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money.
      2.   The court may, also, issue any other orders and injunctions that are
requested by the Village to enforce the order of the hearing officer to correct
a code violation. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/2-203.
12-1-15: APPLICATION FOR GRANTS:
The Village may make application to the department of commerce and economic
opportunity for grants to help defray the costs of establishing and maintaining
a code hearing division as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-
14. (Ord. 1195, 11-17-2010)
