VILLAGE CODE
of
NORTH PEKIN
ILLINOIS
1971
Code current through:
Ord. 1049, passed 4-12-2021
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of North Pekin, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 1049, passed April 12, 2021. 
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-5: Intent
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the Official Village Code of the Village of
North Pekin. Any reference made to the number of any section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate
chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this Code by title
in any legal document. (1971 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1971 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code
within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage. (1971 Code)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this Code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this Code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1971 Code)
1-1-5: INTENT:
All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code
shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent of the Board of
Trustees may be fully carried out. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following Section), from which are excluded
the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; and all special ordinances. (1971 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Code or by virtue
of the preceding Section, excepting as this Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1971 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Code. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural number is
used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons, any
single matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this Code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties, or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this Code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or content may be
repugnant thereto. (1971 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated, shall mean this Village Code.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of North Pekin" and shall be taken to mean the employee of the Village
performing the duties indicated.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal and Municipal year of the Village shall commence on the
first Monday in May of each year.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this Code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by State law.
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such attention
to the nature of probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man
ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of North Pekin", and shall be taken to mean the officer of the Village having
the title mentioned.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, joint stock association or
the State of Illinois or any subdivision thereof, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee, or personal representative thereof.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares, public
places and sidewalks.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The Village of North Pekin, County of Tazewell, State of Illinois.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947; amd. 1971 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty, General
1-4-2: License
1-4-3: Application
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: PENALTY, GENERAL:
   (A)   General Penalty Established: Whenever in this code or in any ordinance
of the village any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or
an offense, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifteen
dollars ($15.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. Each day any violation of any provision of this code or of any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Payments:
      1.   Payments in settlement of those violations set forth in subsection
(C) of this section, or any other violation hereafter added, shall be made
within twenty one (21) days after the date that the citation was issued. Said
payment shall be considered made within twenty one (21) days if the payment is
actually received by the village treasurer's office within twenty one (21)
days. Payments shall be made by cash, certified check, cashier's check or money
order made payable to the village of North Pekin, and may be paid by mail or in
person at the village hall.
      2.   The corporation counsel shall have the authority to delay filing
with the court any citation charging a person with violation of the code in
order to allow that person an opportunity to settle the case prior to his or
her court appearance.
      3.   If the fine, as set forth in subsection (C) of this section is paid
within twenty one (21) days provided above, no complaint charging the person
with the particular violation shall be filed by the office of the corporation
counsel.
      4.   Upon the request of the violator, and at the election of corporation
counsel for the village, fines may be converted to hours of public service at
an hourly rate in accordance with federal minimum wage guidelines.
      5.   The fines for violation of the sections of this code are set forth
in subsection (C) of this section.
   (C)   Fines For Violations:
Section Ordinance Violation First   Second
                            Offense Offense
Section               Ordinance Violation                       First   Second
                                                                Offense Offense
3-16-7                Uninvited solicitors prohibited           $100.00 $200.00
6-2-3-1               Disorderly conduct                        150.00  300.00
6-2-3-2               Public intoxication                       150.00  300.00
6-2-3-3               Vagrancy                                  100.00  200.00
6-2-4-1               Dangerous fires                           100.00  200.00
6-2-4-2               Bonfires                                  50.00   100.00
6-2-4-3               Nuisances                                 200.00  400.00
6-2-4-4               Loud disturbance/noise                    150.00  300.00
6-2-4-6               Fireworks                                 100.00  200.00
6-2-4-9               Curfew (under 18)                         100.00  200.00
6-2-4-10              Sale of alcoholic liquor to minors        500.00  750.00
6-2-4-11 and 6-2-4-12 Possession/consumption of alcoholic       200.00  400.00
                      liquor by minors
6-2-4-18              Possession of cannabis (less than 10      200.00  400.00
                      grams)
6-2-5-2               Trespassing                               100.00  200.00
6-2-6-7               Public indecency                          200.00  400.00
6-3-2-3(B)            Weeds/grass over 8 inches                 100.00  200.00
6-3-2-7               Inoperable motor vehicle (after 7 days'   150.00  300.00
                      notice)
6-4-3-5               Animals running at large                  100.00  200.00
6-4-3-13              Vicious and dangerous dogs                200.00  400.00
7-1-2                 Littering                                 100.00  200.00
7-3-2(A)              Sale of tobacco products to minors (under 300.00  500.00
                      18)
7-3-2(B)              Possession of tobacco products by minor   200.00  400.00
                      (under 18)
 
   (D)   Real Property Violations: In addition to any penalty assessed above,
the cost incurred by the village in abating any violation of village ordinances
relating to real property, together with an administrative fee, recording and
releasing of any lien, and any attorney fees, shall be recoverable from the
owner or person in control of the real estate, and shall constitute a lien
thereon.
   (E)   Vehicle Violations: In addition to any penalty assessed above, the
cost incurred by the village in abating any violation of village ordinances
relating to vehicles, together with an administrative fee, and any attorney
fees, shall be recoverable from the owner or person in control of the vehicle,
and shall constitute a lien thereon. (Ord. 969, 4-28-2014)
1-4-2: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the village may be revoked by the court or
by the board of trustees. (1971 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any
action which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1971 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Elective Officers
1-5-2: Appointive Officers
1-5-3: Oath Of Office
1-5-4: Bonds
1-5-5: Pro Tem Officers
1-5-6: Compensation
1-5-7: Special Policemen
1-5-8: Elective Officers As Policemen Or Firemen
1-5-1: ELECTIVE OFFICERS:
The electors of the Village shall elect a President of the Board of Trustees,
six (6) Trustees and a Village Clerk, who shall be elected and shall hold
office as provided by law 1 . (Ord. 323, 11-12-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-1.
1-5-2: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
The President and Board of Trustees of the Village shall annually appoint the
following officers, which appointments shall be approved by the Board of
Trustees:
Building Inspector
Chairman of Planning and Zoning Commission
Chief of Police
Freedom of Information Act Officer
   Superintendent of Public Works
Village Attorney
Village Engineer
Village Treasurer
Zoning Enforcing Officer
each to hold their respective offices for the term of one year or until their
successors are appointed and qualify; provided, however, that their terms of
office shall not extend beyond the end of the Municipal year in which they were
appointed. (Ord. 1025, 3-11-2019)
1-5-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
All officers of the Village shall, before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices, take and subscribe to the oath prescribed by the Statutes
of the State, which oaths shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk. (Ord. 8,
8-6-1947)
1-5-4: BONDS:
All officers of the Village, whether elected or appointed, except the Trustees,
shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, execute a
bond with surety to be approved by the Board of Trustees, payable to the
Village in such penal sum as may be determined by resolution or ordinance of
the Board, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their
respective offices, and the payment of all monies received by such officers
according to law and the provisions of this Code. Such bonds, when duly
executed and approved, shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk, except for
the bond of the Clerk which shall be filed with the Treasurer. (Ord. 8, 8-6-
1947)
1-5-5: PRO TEM OFFICERS:
When any officer of the Village shall be absent or is from any cause
incapacitated or unable to perform the duties of his office, the President and
Board of Trustees may appoint an officer pro tem to perform the duties of such
office and any person so appointed shall have the same powers and be clothed
with the same authority as the officer whose place he is appointed to
temporarily fill. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-5-6: COMPENSATION:
   (A)   Compensation: Compensation of elected or appointed officials to the
Village Board shall be an amount as is to be set by the Village Board from time
to time through an ordinance enacted by the Village Board, and which specifies
the same. (Ord. 845, 8-13-2007)
   (B)   General Or Special Meetings:
      1.   With respect to the President and Trustees, each shall be paid the
per meeting compensation for each general or special meeting of the Village
Board so attended. The President and the Trustees shall not receive
compensation for committee meetings unless said committee meeting is called as
a joint committee meeting of the Village Board. (Ord. 845, 8-13-2007; amd. Ord.
1001, 1-25-2016)
      2.   Compensation for the Village Clerk shall be per meeting of the
Village Board as defined in this section. (Ord. 1001, 1-25-2016)
   (C)   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "meeting" shall
be defined as a gathering of the Board of Trustees which is duly called and
attended pursuant to section
1-6-3 of this title; or any gathering of the Board of Trustees for the purpose
of conducting any hearing or meeting which may be required by local, State, or
Federal law, including, but not limited to, items such as public hearings or
preannexation agreements, and hearings on the use of revenue sharing funds.
   (D)   Quarterly Installments: The compensation to be paid to the Village
Clerk shall be paid in four (4) equal quarterly installments, to be paid at the
conclusion of each quarter. The President and Trustees shall each be paid on a
quarterly basis, at the end of each quarter in an amount equal to that earned
for all meetings of the Village Board attended during each quarter.
   (E)   Other Officers: Unless otherwise provided by the provisions of this
Code, the salaries of all other officers of the Village will be as set forth by
ordinance of the Village Board from time to time. (Ord. 845, 8-13-2007)
1-5-7: SPECIAL POLICEMEN:
The President may, on special occasions when in his judgment the public peace
and order of the Village shall so require, appoint such number of special
policemen as may be necessary and fix the time during which they shall serve.
Such special policemen shall possess the powers and exercise the duties of
regular policemen or constables within the Village limits; provided their
appointment when made shall be reported by the President at the next regular
meeting of the Village Board after such appointment, for approval; and the
Board shall fix their compensation at such sum as they may deem just and
proper. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-5-8: ELECTIVE OFFICERS AS POLICEMEN OR FIREMEN:
All elective officers of the Village, whether elected or appointed shall,
before entering upon or qualifying to enter upon the duties of their respective
offices, resign any position they may hold with the North Pekin Police
Department or with the North Pekin Fire Department. Any member of the North
Pekin Police Department or North Pekin Fire Department, who is elected or
appointed to an elective office of the Village, shall, before entering upon the
duties of his office, submit an affidavit to the Clerk in a form prescribed by
the Clerk, which affidavit shall confirm the resignation from the North Pekin
Police Department or the North Pekin Fire Department of the person elected or
appointed to an elective office. (Ord. 344, 4-27-1981)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Term
1-6-2: Oath; Bond
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Presiding Officer
1-6-5: Quorum
1-6-6: Committees
1-6-7: Order Of Business
1-6-8: Addressing Meetings
1-6-9: Suspension Of Rules
1-6-10: Robert's Rules Of Order
1-6-1: ELECTION; TERM:
The board of trustees of the village shall consist of six (6) members who shall
each be elected to office for a four (4) year term as provided by statute. Said
board of trustees shall be the legislative department of the village government
and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated to it by
statute 1 . Newly elected trustees shall be inaugurated at the first regular
meeting of the board of trustees in the month of May following their election.
(Ord. 718, 4-22-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1.
1-6-2: OATH; BOND:
The members of the board of trustees shall subscribe to the oath as required by
section
1-5-3 of this title and shall secure a surety bond as required by section
1-5-4 of this title before entering upon the duties as trustees of the village.
(1971 Code)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
The regular meetings of the board of trustees shall be held on the second and
fourth Mondays of each month at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., and no
notice of such regular meeting shall be required. (Ord. 187, 9-23-1968)
Special meetings of the board of trustees may be called by the president or any
three (3) trustees, by filing with the clerk a notice of such meeting in
writing, stating the time and place of such meeting and the object for which
said meeting is called; provided, that if all of the trustees and the president
are present at a special meeting, no notice of the meeting shall be necessary,
and such notice shall be deemed waived. The chief of police shall thereupon
deliver a copy of such notice to the president and each member of the board of
trustees at least twenty four (24) hours before the time of such meeting. (Ord.
8, 8-6-1947)
1-6-4: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The president of the board shall be the presiding officer of all regular and
special meetings of said board of trustees and at all times when the board
meets as a committee of the whole.
During the absence of, or disability of the president, the board may select one
of its number to act as president pro tem, who, while presiding, shall possess
all the powers of the president. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-6-5: QUORUM:
A majority of the trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business, but no
ordinance shall be passed except upon a favorable vote of a majority of the
elected members, as provided by statute. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-6-6: COMMITTEES:
The following shall be the standing committees of the board of trustees:
   Finance committee
   Liquor commission
   Public health and safety
   Street and alley committee
Special committees shall be created from time to time as may be directed by the
board.
All standing and special committees shall consist of three (3) members,
including the chairman unless the board directs otherwise. All committees shall
be appointed by the president. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-6-7: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business of the Board of Trustees shall be as follows:
   (A)   Roll call.
   (B)   Reading of minutes of the last regular, intervening, adjourned and
special meetings.
   (C)   Correspondence.
   (D)   Reports of officers.
   (E)   Reports of standing committees.
   (F)   Reports of special committees.
   (G)   Reading of bills.
   (H)   Presentation of petitions.
   (I)   Reading of finances.
   (J)   Unfinished business.
   (K)   New business. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-6-8: ADDRESSING MEETINGS:
   (A)   Recognition By President: When two (2) members arise at the same time,
the President shall recognize one of them, but in all cases the one rising
first shall be recognized by the President. When one is recognized by the
President, all others shall resume their seats. No member shall speak more than
twice on the same subject without unanimous consent.
   (B)   Motion Seconded: No motion shall be entertained until seconded. When a
motion is made and seconded, it shall be reduced to writing, if requested by
the President or any member of the Board. No motion shall be debated until
slated by the President.
   (C)   Question Under Debate: When a question is under debate, no motion
shall be entertained except a motion to adjourn, to lay on the table, to
postpone indefinitely, to postpone to a certain time, to commit or to amend;
which several motions shall have precedence in order they are herein stated;
but a motion to adjourn shall always be in order except when taking a vote, and
motions to adjourn or to lay on the table shall not be debatable.
   (D)   Voting: If any member of the Board is present but refuses to vote, the
President shall count him as voting in the negative, and if such counting makes
a tie, then the President shall then cast the deciding vote. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
   (E)   Attendance, Participation And Voting By Electronic Means: A Trustee
may be authorized to attend, participate and/or vote by electronic means at any
Village meeting of the Village of North Pekin if said Trustee is unable to
physically attend the meeting if approved by a majority vote of the Corporate
Authorities physically present in each instance.
In order to allow a Trustee to attend, participate and vote by electronic means
at a Village meeting, a quorum of the members of the Village Authorities must
be physically present at said meeting.
In addition, the Trustee must notify the Clerk of the Village prior to the
meeting no later than forty eight (48) hours prior to the meeting. The Trustee
must advise the Village Clerk of the reason for his or her inability to
physically attend the Village meeting. The Village Clerk shall take all
reasonable measures to notify the Mayor and remaining Village Trustees of the
request and the reason for said request.
At the Village meeting, the members of the Village Board that are physically
present shall vote to either allow or disallow the Trustee to attend,
participate and/or vote by electronic means. (Ord. 982, 12-8-2014)
1-6-9: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended at
any time by the consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
(1971 Code)
1-6-10: ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER:
"Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the deliberations of the Board of
Trustees except when in conflict with any of the foregoing provisions. (1971
Code)
CHAPTER 7
PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election; Term
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Bond; Oath
1-7-4: President Pro Tem
1-7-1: ELECTION; TERM:
The Village President shall be elected for a term of four (4) years, and he
shall be the President of the Board of Trustees as is provided by statute 1 .
(1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-1.
1-7-2: DUTIES:
   (A)   The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Village and
shall perform all duties that may be required of him by statute or ordinance.
He shall have supervision over all the executive officers of the Village and
shall have the power and authority to inspect all books and records kept by any
Village officer or employee at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and shall sign all contracts and licenses legally issued.
   (C)   Whenever there is a question as to the respective duties and powers of
any appointed officer of the Village, this shall be settled by the President;
and he shall have the power to delegate to any such officer any duty which is
to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that
specific duty. (1971 Code)
1-7-3: BOND; OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President shall give a bond
with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties, in such sum as directed by the Board. He
shall take the oath of office required by Section
1-5-3 of this Title. (1971 Code)
1-7-4: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the President, the Board of
Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as President Pro Tem, who during
the absence or disability of the President, shall perform the duties pertaining
to the office. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election
1-8-2: Bond; Oath
1-8-3: Duties
1-8-1: ELECTION:
The Clerk shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year term and until his
successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute, and shall receive
as compensation a sum to be fixed by the Board of Trustees from time to time by
resolution or ordinance. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-8-2: BOND; OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Clerk shall give a bond with
sureties to be approved by the President and Board of Trustees conditioned upon
the faithful performance of his duties, in such sum as directed by the Board.
He shall take the oath of office required by Section
1-5-3 of this Title. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-8-3: DUTIES:
The Clerk shall perform, among others, the following duties:
   (A)   He shall be custodian of the Village Seal and keep the same in his
office.
   (B)   He shall attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees, and keep a full
record of their proceedings in a book provided for that purpose.
   (C)   Copies of all papers filed in his office and transcripts from the
journal, and all other records and files of his office shall be furnished by
him, duly certified when required by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (D)   He shall file the originals of all ordinances in his office, and is
authorized and empowered to correct any errors in the numbering of any section
of any ordinance. He also may omit words inserted erroneously, or supply in
brackets words omitted by mistake in any ordinance.
   (E)   He shall superintend the printing or publication of all ordinances
requiring publication.
   (F)   He shall record in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances passed
by the President and Board of Trustees and at the foot of the record of each
ordinance he shall make a memorandum of the date of passage, approval and
publication thereof.
   (G)   The Clerk shall also perform all other duties which may be required of
him by statute or the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
CHAPTER 9
TREASURER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Appointment; Term
1-9-2: Bond; Oath
1-9-3: Duties
1-9-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The Treasurer of the Village shall be appointed by the President and Board of
Trustees as provided by statute and shall serve for a term of one year or until
his successor is duly appointed and qualifies. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-9-2: BOND; OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Treasurer shall give a bond
with sureties to be approved by the President and Board of Trustees conditioned
upon the faithful performance of his duties in an amount of money that is not
less than three (3) times the latest Federal census population or any
subsequent census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes. He shall take and
subscribe to the oath of office required by Section
1-5-3 of this Title 1 . (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-8-1.
1-9-3: DUTIES:
The Treasurer shall perform the following duties and do and perform such other
duties as may be prescribed by the President and Board of Trustees from time to
time:
   (A)   He shall receive all monies coming into his hands as such Treasurer
and keep a correct account of the same.
   (B)   He shall keep a detailed account of each separate fund and with all
persons having accounts with the Village.
   (C)   He shall at the end of each month, and more often if so required by
the Board of Trustees, render an account showing the amount of money on hand,
the amount received since his last report, together with a statement of all
warrants paid by him, which warrants and all other vouchers held by him shall
be delivered with said report to the Clerk to be by him filed in his office.
   (D)   He shall annually between April 1 and April 10 of each year, make out
and file with the Clerk a full and detailed amount of all receipts and
expenditures during the preceding year, which shall be filed with said Clerk
and may be published in the official newspaper in the Village, if so ordered by
the President and Board of Trustees.
   (E)   He shall not honor any warrant on the Treasury unless it is signed by
the President of the Village and countersigned by the Clerk, with the Corporate
Seal affixed thereto, and unless said warrant shows the particular fund upon
which drawn and to whom payable. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
CHAPTER 10
ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Creation Of Office; Appointment
1-10-2: Suits And Actions
1-10-3: Judgments
1-10-4: Advice
1-10-5: Special Assessments
1-10-6: Ordinances And Documents
1-10-7: Retaining Law Firm To Act As Village Attorney
1-10-8: Conflict Of Interest
1-10-1: CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of village attorney, an executive office of
the village. The attorney shall be appointed by the president by and with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees. (1971 Code)
1-10-2: SUITS AND ACTIONS:
The attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or
equity to which the village may be a party, or in which it may be interested,
or which may be brought against, or by, any officer of the village on behalf of
the village, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the village.
(1971 Code)
1-10-3: JUDGMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney to see to the full enforcement of all
judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the village, and of all
similar interlocutory orders. (1971 Code)
1-10-4: ADVICE:
The attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village, and shall render advice
on all legal questions affecting the village, whenever requested to do so by
any village official. Upon request by the president or by the board of
trustees, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing. (1971 Code)
1-10-5: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney to see to the completion of all special
assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings. (1971 Code)
1-10-6: ORDINANCES AND DOCUMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney to draft or supervise the phraseology of
any contract, lease or other documents or instruments, to which the village may
be a party; and upon request of the board to draft ordinances covering any
subjects within the power of the village. (1971 Code)
1-10-7: RETAINING LAW FIRM TO ACT AS VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
The board of trustees is hereby authorized to retain a law firm, be it a
partnership, corporation or professional association, to act as its legal
advisor, to represent the village in litigation except where the board directs
otherwise, to draft all contracts, ordinances and other documents needed by the
village, to advise the village officers and employees on matters pertaining to
their duties, and to render such other legal services as may be required by the
board. The board of trustees is further authorized to appoint one or more
members of said law firm to act in the capacity of village attorney and to
carry out the above mentioned duties. (1971 Code)
1-10-8: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The president of the village of North Pekin, by and with the advice and consent
of the board of trustees, is hereby authorized to appoint a special attorney
for the prosecution, defense or other conduct of village business where an
actual conflict of interest, and/or appearance of conflict of interest may
exist. The intent of this section is that the village attorney shall not
represent both the village and the opposite party in any litigation,
negotiations or development within the village and to provide for a method of
retaining special legal counsel in the event of a conflict of interest or
appearance of conflict of interest. (Ord. 760, 9-22-2003)
CHAPTER 11
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Office Created
1-11-2: Waterworks And Sewer
1-11-3: Streets
1-11-4: Buildings
1-11-5: Other Physical Property
1-11-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of Superintendent of Public Works who shall
be appointed by the President and the Board of Trustees. (1971 Code)
1-11-2: WATERWORKS AND SEWER:
The Superintendent of Public Works shall have charge of the water and sewer
systems. He shall be responsible for the proper operation of the same; and he
is hereby authorized to see to the enforcement of all laws and provisions
pertaining thereto. (1971 Code)
1-11-3: STREETS:
The Superintendent of Public Works shall have charge of the public streets and
supervision over the maintenance and repair of the same. (1971 Code)
1-11-4: BUILDINGS:
The Superintendent of Public Works shall have charge of the maintenance and
repair of all Village-owned buildings. (1971 Code)
1-11-5: OTHER PHYSICAL PROPERTY:
All physical property of the Village which is not assigned by the Board to some
other officer or employee shall be in the care and custody of the
Superintendent of Public Works. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 12
BUILDING INSPECTOR
SECTION:
1-12-1: Creation Of Office
1-12-2: Duties
1-12-3: Powers
1-12-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of building inspector who shall be appointed
by the president by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
(Ord. 904, 7-26-2010)
1-12-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to inspect all structures within
the village of North Pekin, for compliance with the ordinances of the village
of North Pekin, and amendments thereto. He shall perform such additional duties
as may be assigned to him by the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 904, 7-
26-2010)
1-12-3: POWERS:
He shall have the powers and exercise the functions necessary for such
enforcement which are delegated to him by statute or ordinance. (Ord. 904, 7-
26-2010)
CHAPTER 13
SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-13-2: Bond; Oath
1-13-3: Duties
1-13-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Superintendent of Streets for the
Village; this office shall be held by the Superintendent of Public Works unless
a separate appointment to such office is made by the Village Board. (Ord. 8, 8-
6-1947)
1-13-2: BOND; OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Superintendent of Streets
shall give a bond with sureties to be approved by the President and Board of
Trustees conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties, in such sum
as directed by the Board. He shall also take and subscribe to the oath of
office required by Section
1-5-3 of this Title. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-13-3: DUTIES:
The Superintendent of Streets shall perform the following:
   (A)   He shall have charge of all the improvements upon the streets and
alleys of the Village, and shall make all necessary repairs of sidewalks,
culverts, crossings, and bridges in the Village. He shall without any delay
cause all breaks in any bridge, culvert, or crossing to be repaired.
   (B)   He shall as early in the spring of each year as is practicable, cause
all the streets, alleys and other public places in the Village to be cleaned
and kept in good condition and repair.
   (C)   When authorized by the President and Board of Trustees, he may employ
such laborers and teams of trucks and equipment as are needed to work upon the
streets, at such prices as may be determined by the Board.
   (D)   He shall be subject to the Street and Alley Committee, and with their
consent may purchase the necessary tools and implements for the use in his
work.
   (E)   He shall keep an accurate account of all expenditures made under his
direction, and keep a list of all tools and implements, material and other
property of the Village and shall be held accountable therefor.
   (F)   At the expiration of his term of office, he shall deliver to his
successor in office all property of the Village in his hands, taking a receipt
therefor, which shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall credit him with same
and charge his successor therefor.
   (G)   He shall cause all tools and implements of the Village to be marked or
branded with the letters "V. of N.P.".
   (H)   He shall report each month to the Board giving a statement of all
expenditures made under his supervision during the preceding month and state
what work has been done and the character of the same. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
CHAPTER 14
WATER AND SEWER INSPECTOR
SECTION:
1-14-1: Appointment
1-14-2: General Duties
1-14-3: Superintendents Of Waterworks And Sewers
1-14-1: APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Water and Sewer Inspector, which office
shall be held by the Superintendent of Public Works whose term of office as
such Inspector shall be concurrent with his term of office as Superintendent of
Public Works. (1971 Code)
1-14-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Inspector to cause the inspection of all
connections made to the public water and sewer of the Village to determine that
the same are properly made. (1971 Code)
1-14-3: SUPERINTENDENTS OF WATERWORKS AND SEWERS:
As provided in Section
8-4-1 of this Code, the Superintendent of Public Works may appoint employees to
serve as superintendents of waterworks and sewers, respectively. If authorized
by the Superintendent of Public Works, the Superintendent of Waterworks may act
as Water Inspector and the Superintendent of Sewers may act as Sewer Inspector.
(1971 Code)
CHAPTER 15
ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-15-1: Office Created
1-15-2: Oath
1-15-3: Maps, Plats And Records
1-15-4: Duties
1-15-5: Conflict Of Interest
1-15-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of village engineer, who shall be appointed
annually on May 1, or as soon thereafter as may be, by a majority vote of the
board of trustees. He shall hold his office for the term of one year and until
his successor is appointed and has qualified. (1971 Code)
1-15-2: OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, he shall take the oath
prescribed by law for all village officers. (1971 Code)
1-15-3: MAPS, PLATS AND RECORDS:
The village engineer shall keep accurate maps, plats and records of all public
works, lands or property owned by the village. (1971 Code)
1-15-4: DUTIES:
He shall advise the board of trustees and village officials on all engineering
matters referred to him, and shall perform such duties as are provided by law
or ordinance, and in addition thereto, such other duties as from time to time
may be imposed upon him by the board of trustees or by the president. He shall,
from time to time as required by the board of trustees make reports regarding
public improvements, repairs of streets, bridges and sidewalks, or such other
work as the board may request, and shall make such suggestions to the board of
trustees, regarding the same, as shall in his judgment seem best and proper.
(1971 Code)
1-15-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The president of the village of North Pekin, by and with the advice and consent
of the board of trustees, is hereby authorized to appoint a special engineer
for any conduct of village business where an actual conflict of interest, and/
or appearance of conflict of interest may exist. The intent of this section is
that the village engineer shall not represent both the village and the opposite
party in any litigation, negotiations or development within the village and to
provide for a method of retaining a special engineer in the event of a conflict
of interest or appearance of conflict of interest. (Ord. 759, 9-22-2003)
CHAPTER 16
ZONING ENFORCING OFFICER
SECTION:
1-16-1: Creation Of Office
1-16-2: Duties
1-16-3: Powers
1-16-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of Zoning Enforcing Officer who shall be
appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. (1971 Code)
1-16-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Zoning Enforcing Officer to enforce all the
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and amendments thereto. He shall perform
such additional duties as may be assigned to him by the President and Board of
Trustees. (1971 Code)
1-16-3: POWERS:
He shall have the powers and exercise the functions necessary for such
enforcement which are delegated to him by statute or ordinance. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 17
VILLAGE SEAL
SECTION:
1-17-1: Seal; Description
1-17-2: Custody Of Seal
1-17-1: SEAL; DESCRIPTION:
A seal in circular form with the words "Village of North Pekin, Tazewell
County, Illinois" in the outer circle shall be and is hereby declared to be the
Seal of the Village to be used in all cases that have been or may be provided
by the laws of the United States, the laws of the several states respectively
and the provisions of this Code; and in all cases in which, by the customs and
laws of nations, it is necessary to use a seal by a municipal corporation.
(Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-17-2: CUSTODY OF SEAL:
The Village Seal as hereinabove adopted shall be and remain in the custody of
the Clerk, to be by him used as herein provided. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
CHAPTER 18
CLAIMS AND ORDERS
SECTION:
1-18-1: Statement Of Claims
1-18-2: Orders On Treasury
1-18-3: Checks And Drafts
1-18-1: STATEMENT OF CLAIMS:
All persons having claims against the Village shall file with the Clerk an
itemized statement of the same, and if for labor on the public streets or
public works, such statement shall show the character of the work done, and the
time employed in doing such work, and be subscribed and sworn to by the
claimant. No claim against the Village will be paid unless presented as herein
provided, and passed upon by the Finance Committee of the Board of Trustees and
allowed by the President and said Board. The Clerk shall furnish claimants with
the proper blanks on which to make out their claims, and when requested, shall
swear the claimant to the claim without charge. This Section shall not be
construed to apply to salaries of the officers and employees of the Village or
to contracts. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-18-2: ORDERS ON TREASURY:
All orders issued by authority of the Board of Trustees shall have endorsed on
the stub of issue the amount, to whom issued, and fund upon which drawn. All
such orders shall be signed by the President and countersigned by the Clerk.
They shall be numbered consecutively, commencing with the number one at the
beginning of each Municipal year. The Clerk shall deliver all orders to the
Village Treasury. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
1-18-3: CHECKS AND DRAFTS:
There shall be a service charge in an amount to be fixed from time to time by
resolution by the Village Board of Trustees for all and any checks or drafts
written to the Village or any of its departments or subdivisions which are
returned unpaid for any reason. If said check or draft is in payment for
services or any license or permit, then such services shall be considered
unpaid and any licenses or permits revoked until the amount of said check or
draft, plus the above referenced service charge, is paid in full. (Ord. 626,
10-28-1996)
CHAPTER 19
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-19-1: Creation Of Office
1-19-2: Duties
1-19-3: Powers
1-19-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of code enforcement officer who shall be
appointed by the president by and with the advice and consent of the North
Pekin board of trustees. (Ord. 732, 11-11-2002)
1-19-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer to enforce all the
provisions of the village of North Pekin ordinances and amendments thereto. He
shall perform such additional duties as may be assigned to him by the president
and board of trustees. (Ord. 732, 11-11-2002)
1-19-3: POWERS:
He shall have the powers and exercise the functions necessary for such
enforcement which are delegated to him by statute and ordinance. (Ord. 732, 11-
11-2002)
CHAPTER 20
VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS
SECTION:
1-20-1: Prohibited Political Activities
1-20-2: Gift Ban
1-20-3: Gift Ban Exceptions
1-20-4: Gift Ban; Disposition Of Gifts
1-20-5: Penalties
1-20-1: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   Village employees shall not intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time (other than vacation, personal,
or compensatory time off). Village employees shall not intentionally
misappropriate any village property or resources by engaging in any prohibited
political activity for the benefit of any campaign for elective office or any
political organization.
   (B)   At no time shall any executive or legislative branch constitutional
officer or any official, director, supervisor, or village employee
intentionally misappropriate the services of any village employee by requiring
that village employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as part
of that employee's village duties; 2) as a condition of village employment; or
3) during any time off that is compensated by the village (such as vacation,
personal, or compensatory time off).
   (C)   A village employee shall not be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that village employee
being awarded any additional compensation or employee benefit, in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise.
   (D)   A village employee shall not be awarded any additional compensation or
employee benefit, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time
off, continued employment, or otherwise, in consideration for the village
employee's participation in any prohibited political activity.
   (E)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are otherwise
appropriate for a village employee to engage in as a part of his or her
official village employment duties or activities that are undertaken by a
village employee on a voluntary basis as permitted by law.
   (F)   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of village employment or tenure
solely because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of
a political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 767, 5-24-
2004)
1-20-2: GIFT BAN:
Except as otherwise provided herein, no officer, member, or village employee
shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source or in
violation of any federal, state or village statute, rule, regulation or
ordinance. This ban applies to and includes the spouse of and immediate family
living with the officer, member or village employee. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section. (Ord. 767, 5-24-
2004)
1-20-3: GIFT BAN EXCEPTIONS:
The gift ban restriction contained in section
1-20-2 of this chapter, does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
   (B)   Anything for which the officer, member or village employee pays the
market value.
   (C)   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code or
under this act; or 2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support
of a political organization or candidate.
   (D)   Educational materials and missions.
   (E)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss village business.
   (F)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual
as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt,
great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandmother,
grandfather, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and
including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the individual's
spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
   (G)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the member, officer or employee has reason to believe that,
under the circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position
or employment of the member, officer, or employee and not because of the
personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of
personal friendship, the member, officer or employee shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, including, but not limited to:
      1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving the
gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of gifts
between those individuals;
      2.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the member, officer or employee
the individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
      3.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the member, officer or employee,
the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other members, officers or employees.
   (H)   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purposes of this subsection, "catered" means
food or refreshments that are purchased ready to eat and delivered by any
means.
   (I)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from the outside business or employment activities (or outside
activities that are not connected to the duties of the officer, member or
employee as an office holder or employee) of the officer, member or employee,
or the spouse of the officer, member or employee, if the benefits have not been
offered or enhanced because of the official position or employment of the
member, officer or employee, and are customarily provided to others in similar
circumstances.
   (J)   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of this
subsection, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to a member, officer
or employee of the village of North Pekin from another member, officer or
employee of the village of North Pekin; and "intergovernmental gift" means any
gift given to a member, officer or employee of the village of North Pekin from
a member, officer or employee of another municipality, state agency, federal
agency or of any governmental entity.
   (K)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death.
   (L)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any calendar
year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of one another. (Ord. 767, 5-24-2004)
1-20-4: GIFT BAN; DISPOSITION OF GIFTS:
A member, officer or employee does not violate this chapter if the member,
officer or employee promptly takes reasonable action to return the prohibited
gift to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an
appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under section 501(c)(3)
of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered
or succeeded. (Ord. 767, 5-24-2004)
1-20-5: PENALTIES:
   (A)   A person is guilty of a violation if that person intentionally
violates any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of this chapter may
be subject to a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 767,
5-24-2004)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF HEALTH
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation; Appointment
2-1-2: Meetings
2-1-3: General Duties
2-1-4: Expenses Of Board
2-1-5: Compensation
2-1-6: Right To Enter Premises
2-1-7: Duty Of Chief Of Police
2-1-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the Board of Health for the Village which shall consist
of three (3) members to be appointed by the President, by and with the consent
of the Board of Trustees. Said members shall serve for a term of one year or
until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
2-1-2: MEETINGS:
The Board of Health shall meet as often as may be necessary and shall so meet
at the call of the chairman of the Board. Said members shall choose from their
number a clerk who shall keep a record of their proceedings, and the Chief of
Police is hereby required to attend said meetings and shall serve all receipts
and notices issued by the order of the Board. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
2-1-3: GENERAL DUTIES:
The Board of Health shall exercise general supervision over the public health
of the Village and shall make diligent examinations into all matters affecting
the same. They have full power and authority to take all steps and use all
necessary measures to promote the cleanliness of the Village. Said Board shall
have the following duties with regard to the above:
   (A)   They shall cause all nuisances to be abated or removed on public or
private property, which they deem prejudicial or obnoxious to the public
health.
   (B)   They shall make such sanitary regulations deemed necessary or
expedient to prevent the introduction or spreading of any contagious, malignant
or pestilential disease.
   (C)   They shall require that every practicing physician shall report to the
President of the Board or to some member of the Board of Trustees every case of
smallpox, scarlet fever, measles, cholera or any other infectious or contagious
disease which may assume a malignant character, which he may be called upon to
attend, and that such report be made within twelve (12) hours after the
physician shall have examined and discovered the character of such disease.
The orders of the Board of Health shall be certified by the Clerk of the
Village to the Village President who shall cause the same to be executed by the
Chief of Police or some other Village officer. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
2-1-4: EXPENSES OF BOARD:
All bills or accounts for expenses incurred by the Board of Health shall be
presented to the Board of Trustees and if found correct shall be paid by said
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
2-1-5: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the Board of Health shall receive a reasonable compensation for
attendance on the Board, or other necessary services. The Clerk shall keep a
correct account of the attendance of each member and report the same to the
Board of Trustees, who shall order the amount found to be due each member to be
paid from the Treasury of the Village. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
2-1-6: RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES:
The members of the Board of Health are hereby empowered at all times of the day
to enter into any grocery, meat shop, hotel, boarding house, factory, stable or
other building within the Village and to examine the cellars, vaults, sinks,
sewers, and drains belonging thereto; and shall also enter all lots or premises
and cause all stagnant pools of water to be drained and all ash heaps to be
cleaned and kept in an unoffensive condition, and cause all dead animals or
other unwholesome thing to be buried or removed beyond the Village limits.
(Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
2-1-7: DUTY OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to remove or abate all nuisances or
offensive matter which has been condemned by the Board of Health, and when so
ordered by them, to notify the owners of the premises on which such nuisance or
offensive matter is situated to remove or abate the same, and if the owner
fails or neglects to so remove or abate said nuisance, the Chief of Police
shall cause the same to be done and the expense thereof shall be a lien on the
property thereof. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
CHAPTER 2
WATERWORKS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Creation; Appointment
2-2-2: Duties
2-2-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established within the Village a Waterworks Commission to
consist of three (3) members to be appointed by the President with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 43, 1-5-1955)
2-2-2: DUTIES:
The Waterworks Commission shall have the powers and duties enumerated herein:
   (A)   They shall have full power to handle all business transactions of the
waterworks system, including providing a proper system of bookkeeping, and
books and records showing all charges made for water service, all revenue
collected and expenditures made, and shall determine the salary of the
Superintendent and other employees of the waterworks system, and shall employ
and discharge said Superintendent and all employees, all subject however, to
the approval of the Board of Trustees as a whole.
   (B)   They shall have the power and authority to make any obligations in
connection with necessary matters of the waterworks system up to the amount of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one matter or item without obtaining the
previous approval of the Board, but the same shall be reported to the said
Board at its next regular meeting after said obligation has been entered into;
provided, however, that in case of any emergency repairs to the said waterworks
system that requires immediate attention, the nature of which would not warrant
the matter being delayed until a meeting of the Board, the Waterworks
Commission shall, in that event, have the right to have said repairs made
immediately even though the same may exceed the five hundred dollar ($500.00)
limitation stated above. The Waterworks Commission shall submit a report of the
repairs to the Board at its next meeting.
   (C)   The Waterworks Commission shall pass on all bills and each month shall
present to the Clerk a statement of all of the bills that have been approved by
the Commission; whereupon, the bills shall then be passed upon by the Board as
a whole the same as all other bills and shall be paid in like manner.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Waterworks shall work under the direction of the
Waterworks Commission and shall be subject to the orders and directions of said
Commission; and he shall collect all water revenue and deposit the same in the
Water Fund of the Village in the bank so designated by the Board. Immediately
after having made each deposit, the Superintendent shall give the Treasurer a
duplicate of such deposit slip and furnish the Waterworks Commission with a
complete itemized statement setting forth in detail the receipts by him, which
constituted the total amount of the deposit.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Waterworks shall meet with the Commission and
shall keep a record of all business of the Commission which shall be transacted
at each meeting, which record shall be signed by the chairman and secretary of
the Commission and a copy of the same shall be filed with the Clerk. (Ord. 43,
1-5-1955)
   (F)   In all cases of petty cash payments, a voucher shall be signed by the
officer or employee of the Village when a petty cash payment is made to him,
and said voucher shall then be presented to and filed with the office of the
Clerk of the Village, and upon the payment of said petty cash by said officer
or employee, he shall obtain a signed receipt from the person to whom said
payment is made and said signed receipt shall also be presented to and filed
with the office of the Clerk. (4-21-64)
   (G)   No interest shall be paid to water users on any deposits made by any
user, which deposit or deposits may be required by virtue of the provisions of
this Code; and provided, further, that when any subscriber who has made a
deposit ceases to use said water service and has paid all of his water bill,
said deposit shall be immediately paid to him by the Superintendent of
Waterworks or any balance due him, and said Superintendent shall have the right
to make the refund without any previous action by the Waterworks Commission.
(Ord. 43, 1-5-1955)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Creation; Appointment
2-3-2: General Duties
2-3-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established a Board of Local Improvements for the Village which
shall consist of the President of the Village, who shall be the president of
the Board of Local Improvements, and all of the members of the Board of
Trustees of the Village. The President with the approval of the members of the
Board of Local Improvements, shall appoint a member of said Board to serve as
clerk. (Ord. 56, 3-7-1956; amd. 1971 Code)
2-3-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The Board of Local Improvements shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or provisions of this Code, and shall have the power
of employing the services of an engineer for any local improvement originated
by it. (Ord. 56, 3-7-1956; amd. 1971 Code)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF APPEALS
(Rep. by Ord. 220, 5-8-1972)
CHAPTER 5
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Organization
2-5-2: Powers And Jurisdiction
2-5-3: Appeals
2-5-4: Appeals To Court
2-5-1: ORGANIZATION:
There is hereby created a planning commission for the village which shall at
all times be under the jurisdiction of the board of trustees.
The planning commission shall consist of no more than eleven (11) members who
shall be appointed by the president and confirmed by the board on an annual
basis for a term of one year. All members of the commission shall be
compensated as determined from time to time by the village board by resolution
or ordinance.
   (A)   Chairman Of Planning Commission: There is hereby created the office of
chairman of planning commission, who shall be appointed by the president by and
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The chairman shall serve
for a term of one year. (Ord. 924, 1-9-2012)
2-5-2: POWERS AND JURISDICTION:
   (A)   No plans, plats or replats of land within the corporate limits of the
village or in contiguous territory outside of the distant not more than one and
one-half (11/2) miles from such limits shall be entitled to record or shall be
valid unless the subdivision shown thereon shall provide for streets, alleys
and public grounds in conformity with the recommendation of the commission. In
cases of the disapproval by the commission of any such plot, the reason for
such disapproval shall be submitted to the board of trustees, which may
overrule such disapproval by majority vote of its members. The failure of the
commission to disapprove any properly submitted plat within a period of sixty
(60) days from the date of its filing shall be deemed acceptance of such plat.
   (B)   Before approval by the board of trustees of the issuance of any
special permit for the uses described in the zoning title of this code, the
planning commission shall be given thirty (30) days in which to make such
report to the board of trustees; provided however, that if no report is
received from the commission within thirty (30) days, it shall be assumed that
approval of the application has been given by the commission.
   (C)   The planning commission shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning enforcing officer. It
shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under the provisions of this code. The commission may reverse
or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from to the extent and in the manner that
the commission may decide to be fitting and proper in the premises, and to that
end the commission shall also have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken.
When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms of the
zoning provisions of this code relating to the use, construction or alteration
of buildings or structures or to the use of land, imposes upon him practical
difficulties or particular hardships, then the commission may make such
variations of the strict application of said terms as are in harmony with its
general purpose and intent when the commission is satisfied, under the evidence
heard before it, that the granting of such variations will not merely serve as
a convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable
hardship so great as to warrant a variation in the following instances:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record;
      2.   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its
value, by fire or act of God, or the public enemy, where the board shall find
some compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming
use, and in no case shall such a permit be issued if its primary function is to
continue a monopoly;
      3.   To make a variance, by reason of an exceptional situation,
surroundings, or conditions of a specific piece of property of record, or by
reason of exceptional topographical conditions the strict application of any
provisions of the zoning title of this code would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties or particular hardships upon the owner of
such property and amount to a practical confiscation of property, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience to such owner, provided such relief can
be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the general intent and purpose of the comprehensive
plan as established by the provisions of this code;
      4.   To interpret the provisions of the zoning title of this code where
the street layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown
on the district map fixing the several districts;
      5.   To waive the parking requirements in the business or industrial
districts whenever the character or use of the building is such as to make
unnecessary the full provisions of parking facilities or where such regulations
would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of the lot, as contrasted
with merely granting an advantage or convenience;
      6.   To permit a building to be erected, reconstructed, altered or
enlarged so that the building lines will extend beyond the distance specified
in the zoning provisions into side yards or into front yards, provided that
such variances may not be granted: a) unless there is a building in the block
which extends beyond the distance from the front street line specified in the
zoning provisions, in which case the building line may be permitted to extend
as near to the front street line as such nonconforming building; or b) unless
the lot is irregular in shape, topography or size; or c) unless the street line
of the lot is directly opposite the street line of a lot which is irregular in
shape, topography or size;
      7.   To permit in any district such modification of the requirements of
the zoning regulations of this code as said commission may deem necessary to
secure an appropriate development of a lot where adjacent to such lot on two
(2) or more sides there are buildings that do not conform to the regulations of
the district.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the commission
the power or authority to alter or change the zoning regulations or the
district map; such power and authority being reserved to the board of trustees.
The commission may recommend to the village board such conditions and
restrictions upon the use of the premises benefited by a variation, except in
the specified case, after an application for a permit has been made to the
village and after duly advertised public hearing held by the commission as
prescribed by statute. The notice of hearing shall contain the address or
location of the property for which the variation or either ruling of the
commission is sought, as well as a brief description of the nature of the
appeal. In order to partially defray the expenses of the public hearing
involving variances, the applicant shall pay a fee in an amount to be
determined from time to time by the village board by resolution or ordinance.
(Ord. 924, 1-9-2012)
2-5-3: APPEALS:
Appeals to the commission may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the village. Such appeal shall be taken
within twenty (20) days from the date of the action appealed from, by filing
with the zoning enforcing officer and the commission a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The zoning enforcing officer shall forthwith
transmit to the commission all papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from unless the zoning enforcing officer certifies to
the commission, after the notice of appeals has been filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. The commission shall fix a reasonable time
for hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide
the same within a reasonable time. The commission may reverse or affirm, wholly
or partly, or may modify the use, requirements, decision or determination as,
in its opinion, ought to be made in the premises. (Ord. 924, 1-9-2012)
2-5-4: APPEALS TO COURT:
All final administrative decisions of the planning commission rendered under
the terms of this chapter shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the
administrative review act of the state of Illinois and all amendments and rules
adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 924, 1-9-2012)
CHAPTER 6
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Organization Created
2-6-2: Members
2-6-3: Director
2-6-4: Duties
2-6-5: Mutual Aid Agreements
2-6-6: Mobile Support Team; Compensation
2-6-7: Cooperate With State
2-6-8: Compensation For Time Spent
2-6-9: Purchases
2-6-10: Oath
2-6-11: Office Of Organization
2-6-12: Appropriation
2-6-1: ORGANIZATION CREATED:
In accordance with "The Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951", as amended, there
is hereby created the North Pekin Civil Defense Organization as a part of this
Village to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury, loss or damage
resulting from disaster, whether caused by enemy action, sabotage, storm or
other natural causes. (1971 Code)
2-6-2: MEMBERS:
The North Pekin Civil Defense Organization shall consist of a director, one
assistant director and such department heads as may be appointed by the
director, as prescribed by said Illinois Civil Defense Act. (1971 Code)
2-6-3: DIRECTOR:
The director of the North Pekin Civil Defense Organization shall be appointed
by the President with the consent of the Board of Trustees without regard to
political affiliations, and he shall serve until removed by the Board of
Trustees. The director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training, and operation of said organization, subject to the
direction and control of the Village President. In the event of the director's
absence, resignation, death or inability to serve, the assistant director shall
act in that capacity. (1971 Code)
2-6-4: DUTIES:
The North Pekin Civil Defense Organization shall perform such functions within
the Village as shall be prescribed by the State Civil Defense Plan. In
addition, it shall perform such orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the Governor or State Director, and such duties outside the
corporate limits of the Village as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid
agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-
municipality as may be entered into pursuant to said Illinois Civil Defense
Act, as amended. (1971 Code)
2-6-5: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The director shall negotiate mutual aid agreements with other municipal
corporations or political subdivisions of the State, but no such agreement
shall be effective until it has been confirmed by the Board of Trustees and by
the State Director of Civil Defense. (1971 Code)
2-6-6: MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM; COMPENSATION:
All or any members of the Civil Defense Organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the State Director of Civil Defense
as provided by law. The leader of the mobile support team may be designated by
the local director. Any member of a mobile support team is a Municipal employee
or officer while serving on call to duty as such by the Governor, or the State
Civil Defense Director, and shall receive the compensation and have the powers,
duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such
member who is not a paid officer or employee of the Village, while so serving,
shall receive from the State reasonable compensation as provided by law. (1971
Code)
2-6-7: COOPERATE WITH STATE:
In the event that the Governor declares that a civil defense emergency exists
due to actual or threatened enemy attack upon the United States, or the
occurrence within this State of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage
or other hostile action, or from natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the
local Civil Defense Organization to cooperate fully with the State office of
Civil Defense and with the Governor in the exercise of the emergency powers
provided by law. (1971 Code)
2-6-8: COMPENSATION FOR TIME SPENT:
Members of the North Pekin Civil Defense Organization who are officers or
employees of the Village, if called for training by the State Director, shall
receive for the time spent in training the compensation incidental to their
employment; members who are not Village employees shall receive such
compensation as may be established by the Village authorities. (1971 Code)
2-6-9: PURCHASES:
The Board of Trustees shall cooperate in the procurement of necessary supplies
or equipment as may be necessary to effectively carry out the purposes of civil
defense. On recommendation of the director, the Board of Trustees may authorize
any purchase or contracts necessary or advisable to place the Village in a
position to effectively carry out its duty to combat any disaster resulting
from the explosion of any nuclear bomb or missile; to provide emergency
assistance to victims of such disaster, or from natural disaster; to protect
property and lives, and the public peace, health and safety. (1971 Code)
2-6-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the North Pekin Civil
Defense Organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which oath shall be filed with the director:
I,               , residing at               in the Village of North Pekin,
Illinois, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear
true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
affiliated with the North Pekin Civil Defense Organization I will not advocate
nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the Government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence.
(1971 Code)
2-6-11: OFFICE OF ORGANIZATION:
The Village President is authorized to designate suitable space in the Village
to be provided by the Village for the North Pekin Civil Defense Organization,
as its office and for storage of supplies and equipment. (1971 Code)
2-6-12: APPROPRIATION:
The Board of Trustees may make an appropriation for civil defense purposes in
the manner provided by law. (1971 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Forms
3-1-3: Signatures
3-1-4: Investigations
3-1-5: Fees
3-1-6: Termination Of Licenses
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Transfer; Change Of Location
3-1-9: Frontage Consents
3-1-10: Nuisances
3-1-11: Inspections
3-1-12: Revocation
3-1-13: Notice Of Revocation; Request For Hearing; Suspension Of Revocation
3-1-14: Posting License
3-1-15: Waiver Of Fees For Disabled Veterans
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by provision of this Code
shall be made in writing to the Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as
may be needed for the proper guidance of the Village officials in the issuing
of the permit or license applied for 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-60-1.
3-1-2: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor, shall be prepared
and kept on file by the Clerk. (1971 Code)
3-1-3: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the President and the
Clerk of the Village in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (1971
Code)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where the provision
of this Code necessitates an inspection or investigation before the issuance of
such permit or license, the Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time
of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation
or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
(10) days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. (1971 Code)
3-1-5: FEES:
In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for licenses
or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor is made to
the Clerk.
When a business is commenced after the expiration of a part of the license
year, an annual license for the balance of the year will be issued for a
proportionate part of the annual fee. (1971 Code)
3-1-6: TERMINATION OF LICENSES:
All annual licenses and permits shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal
year of the Village in which they are issued, where no provision to the
contrary is made. And each daily license shall terminate at twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight of the day for which the license or permit is granted. (1971 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No licenses shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit for
anything, or act, if the premises and building to be used for the purpose do
not fully comply with the requirements of the Village. No such license or
permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any
act which would involve a violation of the zoning provisions of this Code.
(1971 Code)
3-1-8: TRANSFER; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Licenses issued may be transferred by the original licensee provided that
written notice thereof is given to the Clerk within ten (10) days before the
transfer is made, but no more than one transfer of any license shall be made
within the license year; provided that it shall be unlawful to transfer any
peddler's or itinerant merchant's license or permit, and any attempted transfer
of such a license or permit shall have no effect.
The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act,
may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice in writing thereof is given to
the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided that the
building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the provisions of this
Code are complied with. (1971 Code)
3-1-9: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required as a
prerequisite of the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consent must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
Clerk when signed.
Consent once given and filed shall not be renewed for the continuous conduct of
the same business, whether by the same proprietor or not.
It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to falsely
represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if such is
not the fact.
Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the person
securing the signatures that each signature appearing thereon was properly
secured and written on; and that the petition contains the necessary number of
signatures required by ordinance.
The frontage consent requirements contained in this Code shall not be construed
as amending or changing any zoning provision of the Village; and no such
provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building, or the conduct of a business, or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business or act is or are prohibited
by any zoning provision of the Village. (1971 Code)
3-1-10: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1971 Code)
3-1-11: INSPECTIONS:
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making such inspection at any reasonable time that
admission is requested, any authorized officer or employee of the Village.
In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the President of the
Board may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed
business in the Village who refuses to permit any such officer or employee, who
is authorized, to make such inspection, or who interferes with such officer or
employee while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection.
Provided that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand
is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of
the Village, stating that such inspection is desired and the time it is sought
to make the inspection. (1971 Code)
3-1-12: REVOCATION:
Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the President at any
time during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the provisions relating to the license or permit, the
subject matter of the license or permit or to the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. (1971 Code)
3-1-13: NOTICE OF REVOCATION; REQUEST FOR HEARING; SUSPENSION OF REVOCATION:
   (A)   Unless any provision of this Code provides to the contrary, no
revocation or suspension of any license or permit issued hereunder shall be
deemed effective until notice thereof has been served personally upon or mailed
to the named licensee or permittee at the address specified in the application
for the said license or permit.
   (B)   If, within five (5) days of the date of notice of the revocation or
suspension of any license or permit, the named licensee or permittee submits to
the Village Clerk in writing a request for a hearing concerning such revocation
or suspension, said revocation or suspension shall be suspended until such time
as the Board of Trustees shall grant the licensee or permittee a special
hearing.
   (C)   If the Board of Trustees after such hearing affirms the revocation or
suspension of said license or permit, the same shall become immediately
effective; if the Board of Trustees by a majority vote overrules the revocation
or suspension, the same shall be deemed null and void. (1971 Code)
3-1-14: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
Village to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used
for such business at all times. (1971 Code)
3-1-15: WAIVER OF FEES FOR DISABLED VETERANS:
The Board of Trustees shall have the power to waive the fees for vending
licenses required under any provisions of this Code, upon application for such
license by disabled veterans who are residents of the Village; provided,
however, that such waiver is recommended by the Veteran's Relief Officer of
Tazewell County. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Application Of Provisions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Street Shows
3-2-4: Athletic Exhibitions
3-2-5: Order; Crowding
3-2-6: Inspections
3-2-7: Smoking
3-2-8: Signs
3-2-9: Exit Lights
3-2-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall apply to
all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the Village,
whether specifically licensed in another chapter hereof. (1971 Code)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open to the
public and for admission to which a fee is charged without having first secured
a license therefor, except that motion pictures and theatricals are
specifically exempted from licensing. Provided, however, that the provisions of
this Section shall not be held to apply to those amusements which are
specifically licensed by any other section or chapter in this Code.
Application for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk, and shall comply with
the general provisions relating to such application. For such licenses the
following fees shall be paid:
 
Carnivals                        $75.00 per week
Circus or hippodrome             25.00 per day
Exhibitions of inanimate objects 25.00 per day
Menageries                       5.00 per day
Rodeos                           25.00 per day
Shooting gallery                 5.00 per day
 
(1971 Code)
3-2-3: STREET SHOWS:
No permit shall be granted for any carnival, circus, exhibition show or other
amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such a place that
the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a public
place, except on order of the Board of Trustees. (1971 Code)
3-2-4: ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit any race between persons,
animals or vehicles, or any baseball games, boxing or wrestling matches or any
other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to which a fee is charged
without having procured a license therefor, except such events as may be
conducted by duly accredited schools.
The proprietor of such exhibition shall submit to the Clerk a statement
verified under oath of the gross receipts of each such game, contest or race,
within one week after such exhibition. At the same time such proprietor or
person exhibiting or operating such exhibition shall pay to the Clerk a sum
equal to three percent (3%) of the gross receipts.
Sufficient members of the Police Department shall be admitted free of charge to
all such exhibitions for the purpose of preserving and maintaining order; and
the Clerk may post a person or any number of persons at the box office of each
such performance; and may examine all the books pertaining to such performance
showing or tending to show the gross receipts. (1971 Code)
3-2-5: ORDER; CROWDING:
The audience of any amusement, show or theatrical must be orderly and quiet at
all times, and it shall be unlawful for any person attending such amusement,
show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience.
It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any amusement
or show so as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or other risks.
(1971 Code)
3-2-6: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that every exhibition,
amusement, theatrical or other public show or amusement is inspected by a
member of the Police Department and to ensure conformity with the provisions
concerning such amusements. (1971 Code)
3-2-7: SMOKING:
It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe
beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any building used as an assembly
hall with seating accommodations for more than one hundred (100) persons or in
which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures or other entertainments are
offered, operated, presented or exhibited. (1971 Code)
3-2-8: SIGNS:
It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises or the occupant in charge to
provide and place printed signs on which the words "No Smoking" shall appear in
letters at least four inches (4") high, in conspicuous places, at least two (2)
such signs being upon the stage or in the wings thereof and in each dressing
room. (1971 Code)
3-2-9: EXIT LIGHTS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or hall
used as an assembly hall with accommodations for one hundred (100) persons or
more in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and other entertainments
is offered, operated or presented to provide and place a sign, on which the
word "Exit" shall appear in letters at least six inches (6") high, over every
door or other opening from such hall to every means of egress therefrom and a
light shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over such sign, which
light shall be kept burning during the entire period that the hall is open to
the public and until the audience has left the hall. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 3
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Operator's License Fee
3-3-4: Proprietor's License Fee
3-3-5: Application For License; Nontransferable
3-3-6: Increasing Number Of Devices
3-3-7: Evidence Of Ownership To Be Filed With Clerk
3-3-8: Coin Operated Gambling Devices
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any amusement machine or device operated by
means of the insertion of a coin, token or similar object, for the purpose of
amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term does
not include vending machines in which are not incorporated gaming or amusement
features, nor does the term include any coin operated mechanical musical
devices.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who sets up
for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose of operation
by another, any device as herein defined, whether such setting up for
operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on the
basis of a division of the income derived from such device, or otherwise.
PROPRIETOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club
who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor has under his or its control any
establishment, place or premises in or at which such device is placed or kept
for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play. (1971 Code)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of an "operator" or
"proprietor" of coin operated amusement devices as the terms are herein
defined, without first having obtained the proper license therefor. (1971 Code)
3-3-3: OPERATOR'S LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for each operator shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). All
operator's license fees shall be payable annually in advance, provided that
where application is made after the expiration of any portion of any license
year a license may be issued for the remainder thereof upon payment of a
proportionate part of the annual fee. In no case shall any portion of said
license fee be refunded to the licensee. (1971 Code)
3-3-4: PROPRIETOR'S LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for each "proprietor", as herein defined, shall be ten dollars
($10.00) per year for each device used or played, or exhibited for use or play.
All proprietor's license fees shall be payable in advance; provided, that where
application is made after the expiration of any portion of any license year a
license may be issued for the remainder thereof upon payment of a proportionate
part of the annual fee. In no case shall any portion of said license fee be
repaid to the licensee. (1971 Code)
3-3-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABLE:
Application for license hereunder shall be filed in writing with the village
clerk, on a form to be provided by the village, and shall specify:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm, corporation,
partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses.
   (B)   The address of the premises where the licensed device or devices are
to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on at
such place.
   (C)   The trade name and general description of the device or devices to be
licensed, the name of the manufacturer and the serial number and, if the
applicant is a proprietor, the number of devices to be licensed.
   (D)   The name and address of the operator of the device or devices, if
other than the proprietor.
The proper license fee shall accompany such application. Application for
license hereunder shall be first referred by the village clerk to the president
and board of trustees who shall make or cause to be made such investigation as
they deem necessary. If the application is approved by the president and board
of trustees, the license shall be issued by the clerk, and the clerk shall
remit the fee to the village treasurer. If the license is denied the fee shall
be returned to the applicant. All licenses under this chapter shall expire on
April 30 following their issuance. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in the establishment of the licensee. Such license shall be nonassignable
and nontransferable, and in the case of a proprietor shall apply only to the
premises for which such license is issued. (1971 Code)
3-3-6: INCREASING NUMBER OF DEVICES:
In case a proprietor licensed under the provisions of this chapter desires,
after the expiration of any portion of any license year, to increase the number
of devices to be used or played, or exhibited for use or play in his
establishment, he shall surrender his license to the village clerk who shall
issue a new license showing the number of devices licensed thereunder, upon
payment of the proper license fee therefor. (1971 Code)
3-3-7: EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP TO BE FILED WITH CLERK:
Any proprietor who owns such device or devices at the time this chapter becomes
effective shall file with the village clerk evidence of such ownership prior to
the issuance of a license; and any proprietor purchasing a device or devices
after the effective date of this chapter shall file with the village clerk
evidence of ownership thereof before exhibiting or placing said device or
devices for use or play. (1971 Code)
3-3-8: COIN OPERATED GAMBLING DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person or establishment to keep or use in any
place within the village any coin operated mechanical device for which there
has been purchased a coin operated gambling device special tax stamp, issued by
the internal revenue authorities of the United States government, except as
specifically authorized by chapter 22 of this title. (Ord. 945, 10-8-2012)
CHAPTER 4
BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
SECTION:
3-4-1: License Required
3-4-2: Fees
3-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool or bagatelle or
pigeonhole table open to the public without having first obtained a license
therefor as is herein required. All applications for such licenses shall state
thereon the intended location of the place of business and the number of tables
to be used therein. (1971 Code)
3-4-2: FEES:
The annual fee for such license shall be five dollars ($5.00) for the first
table; and an additional fee of one dollar ($1.00) for each additional table.
(1971 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOWLING ALLEYS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Fee
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or maintain a bowling alley open to the public without
having first secured a license therefor as is herein required. Applications for
such licenses shall be made to the Clerk and shall be in writing and state
thereon the intended location of the place of business and the number of alleys
to be used. (1971 Code)
3-5-2: FEE:
The annual fee for such license shall be five dollars ($5.00) for each alley,
but in no event to exceed the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00). (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC DANCES AND DANCE HALLS
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Required
3-6-2: Applications; Investigations
3-6-3: Fee
3-6-4: Duty Of Sponsor To Maintain Order
3-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a public dance or dance hall in the
Village without having first obtained a license therefor, as is herein
provided. (1971 Code)
3-6-2: APPLICATIONS; INVESTIGATIONS:
Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the provisions
of this Code relating to licenses, and shall specify the location of the
proposed dance or dances and the person or organization sponsoring the same.
No such license shall be issued to a person who is not a person of good moral
character, nor to a corporation or organization which is not represented in the
Village by a person of good moral character.
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make or cause to be made an
investigation into the character of each applicant and report the result of
such investigation to the Clerk. (1971 Code)
3-6-3: FEE:
Except for any business which pays a special fee under subsection
3-9-3(F) of this Title, the annual fee to operate a public dance hall shall be
four hundred dollars ($400.00). The fee for public dances, given for public
benefit, shall be one dollar ($1.00), providing the sponsors furnish at their
expense a regular sworn police officer who shall remain in charge during the
time the dance is in progress, and except that if the dance is to be held in
the Village building and rent for its use has been paid, no other fee shall be
charged for a license. (1971 Code)
3-6-4: DUTY OF SPONSOR TO MAINTAIN ORDER:
It shall be the responsibility of the operator of any public dance hall or the
sponsors of any public dance to maintain order and to prevent such dance from
becoming a public nuisance. No license shall issue for a period of one year to
any operator, sponsor or sponsoring group who fails to fulfill the above
mentioned responsibility. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PARKING LOT; GARAGE
(Rep. by Ord. 394, 6-13-1983)
CHAPTER 8
SKATING RINKS
SECTION:
3-8-1: License Required
3-8-2: Application; Investigation
3-8-3: Fee
3-8-4: Premises
3-8-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a public skating rink in the Village
without having first obtained a license therefor as is herein provided. (1971
Code)
3-8-2: APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION:
Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the provisions
of this Code relating to licenses and shall specify the location of the
proposed skating rink and the person or organization sponsoring the same.
No such license shall be issued to a person who is not a person of good moral
character, nor to a corporation or organization which is not represented in the
Village by a person of good moral character.
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make or cause to be made an
investigation into the character of each applicant and report the results of
such investigation to the Clerk. (1971 Code)
3-8-3: FEE:
The fees for public skating rinks shall be as follows:
 
Annual $25.00
Weekly 10.00
Daily  5.00
 
(1971 Code)
3-8-4: PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful to conduct a public skating rink in any hall or building
which is not equipped with sufficient and adequate exits; and no hall or
building which is not provided with at least two (2) exits of four feet (4') or
more in width shall be used for such purpose. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 9
LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-9-1: Title
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: Licenses; Fees
3-9-4: Special Alcoholic Liquor Licenses
3-9-5: Application For License
3-9-6: Bond
3-9-7: Issuance Of License
3-9-8: Renewals
3-9-9: Posting License
3-9-10: Liquor Control Commissioner
3-9-11: Liquor Control Commission Regulations
3-9-12: Frontage Consents (Rep. by Ord. 402, 12-12-1983)
3-9-13: Closing Hours
3-9-14: Business License Required
3-9-15: Obstructions Prohibited
3-9-16: Sales To Minors, Intoxicated Persons, Etc., Prohibited
3-9-17: Revocation Of License
3-9-18: Club Licensees Prohibited From Advertising That They Are Open To The
Public
3-9-19: Special Club Licenses In Connection With Bingo
3-9-20: Special New Year's Eve Liquor License
3-9-21: Employees Regulated
3-9-22: Food Sales Of Establishment, Percentage Of
3-9-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the NORTH PEKIN LIQUOR CONTROL
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of
being consumed as a beverage by a human being 1 .
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BUSINESS: The conducting of any establishment or place of
business in which alcoholic beverages as herein defined are bartered, sold,
offered for sale, exchanged or given away, either for profit or otherwise.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like 2 .
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the local liquor control
commissioner at the time of its application for a liquor license, two (2)
copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly files
within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member his name and
address; and provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the
members at their annual meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent, or
employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form
of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of
alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club 3 .
DISTRIBUTOR: Any person, other than a manufacturer licensed under the
provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, who is engaged in this State or
in the Village in purchasing, storing, possessing or warehousing any alcoholic
liquors for resale or reselling at wholesale, whether within or without this
State 4 .
DRAMSHOP: Any establishment catering to the general public, whose principal
business is the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
LIQUOR STORE: Any establishment selling alcoholic beverages which are not to be
consumed on the premises. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947; amd. Ord. 72, 8-13-1957; Ord., 5-
19-1964)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.05.
2 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.04.
3 2. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.24.
4 3. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.15.
3-9-3: LICENSES; FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an alcoholic beverage business
either as a dramshop or as a liquor store, or in any other manner in any stand,
place, room, building, enclosure or suite of rooms within the Village, unless
he shall have first secured a license to do so and has paid the Local Liquor
Control Commission the fee for such license as hereinafter set forth; provided,
that no alcoholic beverage business shall be conducted other than upon the
ground or street level floor of any building.
The license fee for the operation of a dramshop shall be classified according
to the hours that the same remains open for business as set forth in section
3-9-13 of this chapter, and shall be designated as Class A and Class B dramshop
licenses. Said fees shall be as follows:
   (A)   The license fee for a Class A dramshop license shall be the sum of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a period of twelve (12) months
payable in advance.
   (B)   The license fee for a Class B dramshop license shall be the sum of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a period of twelve (12) months
payable in advance.
   (C)   The operation of a club shall require a Class C dramshop license and
the fee for same shall be the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a period
of twelve (12) months payable in advance.
   (D)   The operation of a liquor store shall require a Class D liquor
license, enabling the establishment to sell at retail for off premises
consumption of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages. The fee for a Class D
license shall be the sum of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a period
of twelve (12) months payable in advance.
   (E)   The operation of a liquor store shall require a Class E liquor
license, enabling the establishment to sell at retail for off premises
consumption of beer and wine only. The fee for a Class E license shall be the
sum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) for a period of twelve (12) months payable
in advance.
   (F)   The license fee for all classes of liquor licenses, except a club
license, shall be increased to the sum of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for a period of twelve (12) months when there is dancing or paid or
professional entertainment in or upon any tavern or place of business within
the Village where a dramshop or liquor license is required; provided, however,
that this provision shall not apply to private dinners or parties held in any
tavern or such place of business even though there is a professional or paid
entertainment or dancing in connection with said private dinners or parties.
No portion of any license fee shall be refunded for any period, or portion of
any period in which the licensee shall be prohibited from operating under such
license.
No more than a total of ten (10) licenses for the operation of an alcoholic
liquor business, regardless of the classification of such licenses, may be
issued by the Local Liquor Control Commission, whether outstanding or in force
at any one time. In the event that the authorized number of licenses has been
issued, any application for a liquor license may be summarily denied by the
Local Liquor Control Commission without a hearing.
The holder of any license for the operation of an alcoholic liquor business may
renew his license prior to the expiration thereof provided that he is then
qualified to receive a license and provided further that the privilege of
renewal shall not be construed as a vested right which shall, in any case,
prevent the Village Board from decreasing the number of licenses authorized to
be issued within the Village.
Upon denial by the Local Liquor Control Commission of an application for a
license under the provisions of this chapter, it shall be necessary for any
applicant whose application has been denied to reapply for a license in order
to be eligible for the issuance of a license at any subsequent time; provided,
however, that such reapplication is not necessary if the action of the Local
Liquor Control Commission in so denying the application is reversed by final
order of either the State Liquor Control Commission or a court of review.
Among qualified applicants for an available license, priority shall be given to
those pending applications in the order in which they are filed with the Local
Liquor Control Commission. (Ord. 998, 5-23-2016)
3-9-4: SPECIAL ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSES:
The President and Board of Trustees shall, in their discretion, have the right
and authority to issue a special license for a period of not more than three
(3) days to any lodge or organization for the sale of alcoholic liquor, when
said sale is in connection with any function sponsored by said lodge or
organization for the purpose of raising funds for said lodge or organization,
but no such license shall be issued to any individual or group of individuals
in connection with raising funds for said individual or group of individuals
personally, but merely for the benefit of said lodge or organization.
A license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per day or twenty five dollars ($25.00)
for three (3) days shall be paid by the holder of the special license, to be
paid at the time of the issuance of said license.
Before such a license shall be issued, the licensee shall furnish a bond in the
sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to be approved by the President of the
Board, said President being the Liquor Control Commissioner of the Village,
which bond shall provide that the licensee and all of his agents, employees or
guests will not violate any laws of the State nor violate any Federal laws nor
violate any provisions of this Code, and will save and keep harmless the
Village from any and all liability in connection with the sale of alcoholic
liquor.
The licensee is hereby required to carry dramshop insurance in connection with
any and all liabilities under the Dramshop Act of the State, in an amount of
sufficient protection under said Act.
In the event that during the tenure of this license the Liquor Control
Commissioner has just and reasonable grounds to believe that the law in
connection with the sale of alcoholic liquor under special license is being
violated or the licensee is not complying with the provisions of this section,
said Commissioner shall have the right and shall revoke said license. (Ord., 5-
19-1964; amd. Ord. 338, 5-12-1980)
3-9-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license under the provisions of this chapter shall file
an application with the Liquor Control Commissioner or with the Liquor Control
Commission, as the case may be, and shall accompany such application with the
proper license fee. Such application must be sworn to and contain the following
information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant, and that he is a resident of
the Village;
   (B)   That he is a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   His place of birth, and if he is a naturalized citizen, the time and
place of naturalization;
   (D)   That he has never been convicted of a felony under Federal or State
law;
   (E)   The location where he proposes to sell alcoholic liquors;
   (F)   That the proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100') of
any church, school, hospital, undertaking establishment or mortuary;
   (G)   That the applicant is not disqualified to receive a license by reason
of any provision or qualification contained in the Illinois Liquor Control Act;
   (H)   Whether said application is for the operation of a dramshop, liquor
store or a distributor; and
   (I)   That the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the state, or
the provisions of this code in the conduct of his place of business.
In case of a partnership, the information required by this section shall be
furnished as to each partner, and in the case of a club, association or
corporation, as to the principal officers of such club, association or
corporation. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-6: BOND:
Each person desiring a license to operate a dramshop or liquor store shall be
required to show that he is of good moral character, and shall also execute a
penal bond in form and with security satisfactory to the liquor control
commission, conditioned upon the faithful observance of the provisions of the
Illinois liquor control act and of the provisions of this chapter, relating to
alcoholic liquors. Such bond shall be in the sum of five hundred dollars
($500.00) and shall, upon approval by the liquor control commission, be filed
in the office of the clerk. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
All applications for licenses under the provisions of this chapter shall be
presented to the liquor control commissioner or any member of the liquor
control commission. Said application shall be investigated by the liquor
control commission, and the commission may, in its discretion, thereafter
approve or reject the application. Upon the approval of such application and
the giving of the proper bond and the license fee having been paid, the liquor
control commission may order and direct the clerk to issue a license to such
applicant, which license must also be signed by the liquor control
commissioner. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-8: RENEWALS:
All applications for renewal licenses must be filed with the liquor control
commissioner or any member of the liquor control commission at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of expiration of said license.
No license shall be renewed if a complaint has been received by the liquor
control commissioner as to the manner in which the applicant for such renewal
has carried on the business authorized by such license, until a hearing has
been had upon such complaint before the liquor control commission. Such hearing
shall be held within thirty (30) days from and after the filing of the written
complaint or protest with the liquor control commissioner or any member of the
liquor control commission. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-9: POSTING LICENSE:
Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
immediately post and keep posted while in force in a conspicuous place on the
premises the license so issued. Whenever such license shall be lost or
destroyed, a duplicate in lieu thereof shall be ordered and issued by the
liquor control commission. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-10: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The president of the board of trustees is hereby appointed and designated as
the local liquor control commissioner, and he may appoint a person or persons,
not exceeding two (2) in number, to assist him in the exercise of the powers
and in the performance of the duties of his office. Such person or persons so
appointed shall, with the president, constitute the local liquor control
commission. The local liquor control commission shall have the power:
   (A)   To grant and revoke for cause all licenses issued under the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed under the provisions of this chapter to
determine whether any of the provisions of this chapter or of the Illinois
liquor control act are being violated.
   (C)   To receive complaints from any citizen of the village that any of the
provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaints.
   (D)   To receive all license fees provided for herein, and to pay the same
forthwith to the treasurer. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
   (E)   In any appeal taken by any person or entity from any action or
inaction taken by the local liquor control commissioner of the village, in
accordance with section 7-9 of the liquor control act of 1934, as amended 1 ,
such appeal shall be limited to a review of the official record of the
proceedings of such liquor control commissioner, and in the event of any such
appeal, a certified official record of the proceedings taken and prepared by a
certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter shall be filed by the
local liquor control commissioner within five (5) days after notice of filing
of any such appeal, if the appellant licensee pays for the cost of the
transcript. Upon any such appeal, the state commission shall review the
propriety of the order or action of the local liquor control commissioner and
shall consider the following questions:
      1.   Whether the local liquor control commissioner has proceeded in the
manner provided by law.
      2.   Whether the order is supported by the findings.
      3.   Whether the findings are supported by substantial evidence in light
of the whole record.
The only evidence which may be considered in such a review shall be the
evidence found in the certified official record of the proceedings of the local
liquor control commissioner and no new or additional evidence shall be admitted
or considered. (Ord. 549, 8-26-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 43 ILCS 5/7-9.
3-9-11: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION REGULATIONS:
The liquor control commission shall not issue a license to any of the
following:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village.
   (B)   A person who is not of good moral character and reputation.
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
United States or the state of Illinois.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor involving
matters of indecency or immorality.
   (F)   A person who for any reason is not eligible or cannot qualify for a
state retailer's license under the Illinois liquor control act.
   (G)   Any public official residing in the village. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-12: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 402, 12-12-1983)
3-9-13: CLOSING HOURS:
The following shall govern the hours during which premises holding licenses
under the provisions of this chapter shall be closed:
   (A)   No class A dramshop shall serve liquor between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., of any weekday; and on Sundays
class A dramshops are hereby given authority to remain open for business
between the hours of twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) P.M. until the following one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. All customers of class A dramshops shall vacate the
premises not later than one-half (1/2) hour after closing.
   (B)   No class B dramshop or liquor store shall remain open between the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any weekday;
and on Sundays, class B dramshops and liquor stores are hereby given authority
to remain open for business until the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
   (C)   No class C dramshop shall serve liquor between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any weekday; and on Sundays
class C dramshops are hereby given authority to remain open for business
between the hours of twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) P.M. until the following one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. All customers of class C dramshops shall vacate the
premises not later than one-half (1/2) hour after closing.
   (D)   Class D license holders shall not have any closing hours for the sale
of packaged alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   No class E license holder shall sell or offer to sell beer or wine
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any
weekday; and on Sundays, class E license holders are hereby given authority to
sell or offer for sale beer and wine until the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
   (F)   No class F dramshop shall serve liquor between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., of any weekday; and on Sundays
class F dramshops are hereby given authority to remain open for business
between the hours of twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) P.M. until the following one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. All customers of class F dramshops shall vacate the
premises not later than one-half (1/2) hour after closing. (Ord. 959, 12-9-
2013)
3-9-14: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell, keep for sale or offer for sale any alcoholic beverage
within the village, unless he shall have first obtained an alcoholic beverage
license as herein provided. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-15: OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
premises is licensed, other than a restaurant, hotel or club, no screen, blind,
curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon
the doors, or inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the
interior of such premises from the street or sidewalk at all times. Said
premises must be so located that there shall be a full view of the entire
interior of such premises from the street or sidewalk. All rooms where
alcoholic liquors are sold for consumption on the premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white light
so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. The
liquor control commission may, if it so desires, require any applicant to file
with his application for license, plans, drawings or photographs showing the
clearance of the view as herein required. (Ord. 1, 6-30-1947)
3-9-16: SALES TO MINORS, INTOXICATED PERSONS, ETC., PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of said licensee to sell, give, or
deliver any alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, or to any intoxicated person, or to any person known by him to be a
habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in
need of mental treatment. (Ord. 327, 12-10-1979)
3-9-17: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The liquor control commissioner or the liquor control commission may levy a
fine in any amount authorized by the state of Illinois plus all costs incurred
by any violation and may suspend or revoke any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter for any one or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   Violation of any of the laws of the state, including the Illinois
liquor control act or any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The wilful making of any false statement as to a material fact in the
application for a license.
   (C)   Permitting any disorderly conduct or immoral practices upon the
premises where the licensee is licensed to conduct an alcoholic liquor
business. (Ord. 698, 2-26-2001)
3-9-18: CLUB LICENSEES PROHIBITED FROM ADVERTISING THAT THEY ARE OPEN TO THE
PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for the holder of a club license as defined in this
chapter to advertise or hold themselves out as being open to the public at all
times, except:
   (A)   Those times when a club licensee has been granted a special beer
license pursuant to section
3-9-4 of this chapter.
   (B)   Those times when a club licensee has been granted a special club
license in connection with the playing of bingo pursuant to section
3-9-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 303, 5-8-1978)
3-9-19: SPECIAL CLUB LICENSES IN CONNECTION WITH BINGO:
Any liquor licensee possessing a valid bingo license issued by the state, and a
valid class C club license issued by the village, may apply for a special club
license in connection with bingo. Holders of special club licenses in
connection with bingo shall be governed by all of the applicable provisions of
this chapter with respect to club liquor licensees except as expressly modified
by the provisions contained below:
   (A)   Each liquor license holder who seeks a special club license in
connection with bingo shall apply to the liquor control commissioner. The
application shall include the name of the licensee, the establishment where the
bingo playing is to take place and the reason why permission to serve alcoholic
beverages is sought. It shall be within the sole discretion of the liquor
control commissioner to approve, renew or revoke any license issued under this
section.
   (B)   A license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for three (3) months
shall be payable at the time of the issuance of said license. In order for a
special license under this section to remain valid, a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) must be paid in advance, every three (3) months thereafter.
   (C)   Holders of special licenses obtained under this section are hereby
authorized to:
      1.   Open the club to the general public one night per week for the
specific purpose of playing bingo.
      2.   Serve between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. any alcoholic beverage allowed under their club license to
members of the general public who come to the club for the express purpose of
playing bingo.
      3.   Advertise to the public that bingo playing will take place at the
club on the one designated night per week but shall not advertise to the
general public the availability or the consumption of alcoholic beverages on
the premises. (Ord. 303, 5-8-1978)
      4.   Advertise to the public that bingo will take place at the club on
the Saturday afternoon after Thanksgiving between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) P.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. but shall not advertise to the general
public the availability or the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises. (Ord. 400, 11-14-1983)
   (D)   The liquor control commissioner may, on special application made by
any organization having a bingo license, issue a special permit for conducting
bingo at its designated premises and on other days not exceeding seven (7)
consecutive days. No more than two (2) such special permits may be issued in
one year to any one organization. Such permits shall be prominently displayed
at the site of the bingo games. (Ord. 407, 2-27-1984)
3-9-20: SPECIAL NEW YEAR'S EVE LIQUOR LICENSE:
   (A)   Upon application and payment of the special license fee in the manner
hereinafter set forth, the village clerk shall issue a "special New Year's Eve
liquor license".
   (B)   A special New Year's Eve liquor license shall be available only to
those persons or entities presently holding a liquor license issued under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any provision of section
3-9-13 of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the holder of a special
New Year's Eve liquor license shall be authorized to serve liquor until two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. on January 1. The license holder to whom a special New
Year's Eve liquor license has been issued shall cause all customers to vacate
the licensed premises not later than two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. on January
1.
   (D)   No dramshop shall remain open or serve liquor on January 1 except
during the hours established in section
3-9-13 of this chapter unless the license holder has first obtained a special
New Year's Eve liquor license in the manner set forth in this section.
   (E)   The village clerk shall not issue a special New Year's Eve liquor
license unless the holder of the regular license has made application and paid
the required special licensing fee by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on December 27.
   (F)   A license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for a special New Year's Eve
liquor license shall be payable at the time of the issuance of said license.
(Ord. 421, 11-25-1986)
3-9-21: EMPLOYEES REGULATED:
   (A)   No licensee under this chapter shall employ or permit any person under
twenty one (21) years of age to act as his agent, barkeeper, clerk, servant,
employee or entertainer in or about any premises offering alcoholic liquor or
malt, or vinaceous beverages for sale, provided, however, that licensees whose
businesses are not predominantly the sale of alcoholic liquor, such as
restaurants, clubs, hotels, bowling alleys, grocery stores and drugstores, may
employ persons under twenty one (21) years of age, otherwise qualified by law
for such employment, in connection with those portions of the business which do
not involve alcohol.
   (B)   No licensee hereunder shall employ as manager or as a barkeeper any
person who would not be eligible to receive a license under this chapter if he
were the applicant therefor.
   (C)   Each licensee shall include with his application for a license or any
renewal thereof a list of the names and addresses of his manager or barkeeper,
or a statement that he has no managers or barkeepers. Any change in that list
will be reported to the local liquor control commissioner within ten (10) days
of such change. (Ord. 740, 1-27-2003)
3-9-22: FOOD SALES OF ESTABLISHMENT, PERCENTAGE OF:
A minimum of seventy percent (70%) of the total sales for the establishment
shall be that of food items, and not for the sale of alcohol. This requirement
shall only apply to those liquor licenses issued after the passage of this
section and shall not apply to renewal of any license issued before the passage
of this section. (Ord. 744, 3-10-2003)
CHAPTER 10
HOUSE TRAILERS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definition
3-10-2: License Required
3-10-3: Maintenance During Construction
3-10-1: DEFINITION:
The term "house trailer" as used herein, shall be intended to mean a structure
or vehicle primarily designed and suitable for living or sleeping quarters and
for office purposes mounted on wheels, or primarily designed or built to be
mounted on wheels, or other device upon which it might be readily transported
either by its own power or by some externally applied tractive effort;
provided, however, that said structure or vehicle shall be considered to be a
house trailer under the provisions of this Chapter even though the wheels have
been taken off the same or no wheels are provided thereon and a foundation has
been placed under said structure or vehicle. (Ord. 34, 11-5-1952)
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any house trailer in which a person or persons are living at the time of the
adoption of this Chapter and which is maintained, parked or placed within the
Village, shall be allowed to continue so to do and to remain there in said
house trailer; provided, however, that the persons so living therein shall pay
a license fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year to the Village,
said payment to be made in advance to the Clerk, and said year to commence on
July 1 of each year. This Section shall only apply to house trailers which
were, on August 3, 1955, lived in, maintained, parked and placed and not to any
house trailer which shall in the future be lived in, maintained, parked or
placed therein, as it shall be unlawful for any person to live in a house
trailer which is maintained, parked or placed anywhere within the Village.
(Ord. 34, 11-5-1952; amd. Ord. 49, 8-3-1955)
3-10-3: MAINTENANCE DURING CONSTRUCTION:
If any person who owns a lot in the Village and is desirous of building a house
thereon, he shall have the right to place, maintain and park a house trailer
for himself and his family to live in on said lot during the time said house is
actually being constructed; provided, however, that he shall obtain a permit
from the Village so to do, which permit shall be for a period of six (6) months
at a time, but in no event shall he obtain more than three (3) of said permits
and shall not be allowed to so live in, maintain, park or place said trailer
for a period of more than eighteen (18) months, and provided further that he
shall not be allowed to so live in, maintain, park or place said trailer on
said lot unless he is actually and continuing to build his said home, and it
shall be within the discretion of the Board of Trustees to determine whether or
not he is actually continuing said building; and if the Board decides that he
is not actually continuing to build said home but merely doing a small amount
of work upon said home in order to obtain the right to live in said trailer,
then in that event, the Board shall have the right to revoke or refuse to
reissue said permit, it being the intention of this Chapter that within said
period of eighteen (18) months if a person is conscientiously and diligently
building his home to the best of his ability, then he shall have the privilege
of so living in said house trailer during said period of time.
In cases of house trailers which are not maintained, parked or placed within
the Village and which are referred to hereinabove, the owner or person
maintaining same shall comply with all sanitary conditions which may be
required by the Board and the sanitary conditions in connection therewith must
be approved by the Board. (Ord. 34, 11-5-1952)
CHAPTER 11
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Tax Imposed
3-11-2: Compliance Required
3-11-3: Account Rendered; Payments
3-11-1: TAX IMPOSED:
Any corporation, company or association, not incorporated under the laws of the
State, engaging in the Village in effecting or transacting any business of fire
insurance, shall pay to the Treasurer of the Village for the maintenance, use
and benefit of the Village Fire Department a sum equal in amount to two percent
(2%) per annum of the gross receipts received as premiums upon fire insurance
policies by any and all agents of such corporation, company or association,
during the year ending on July 1 of each year, for any insurance effected or
agreed to be effected on property located in the district by or with such
corporation, company or association during such year. (Ord. 64, 4-3-1957)
3-11-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any such corporation, company or association, not
incorporated under the laws of this State, to engage in the Village in
effecting fire insurance, or to transact any business of fire insurance in the
Village, while in default by not fully complying with any of the requirements
of this Chapter, and until such requirements shall have been fully complied
with; but this provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or
association from the payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of
this Chapter. (Ord. 64, 4-3-1957)
3-11-3: ACCOUNT RENDERED; PAYMENTS:
Every person acting in the Village as agent for or on behalf of any such
corporation, company or association shall, on or before July 15 of each and
every year, render to the Clerk a full, true and just account verified by his
oath of all premiums upon fire insurance policies which, during the year ending
July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him, or by some other
person for him in behalf of any such corporation, company or association on
property located within the Village. Such agent shall also, at the time of
rendering the aforesaid report, pay to the Treasurer of the Village the sum of
money for which each such corporation, company or association represented by
him is chargeable, by virtue of the provisions of this Chapter.
The sum of money for which such corporation, company or association is so
chargeable, may be recovered of it or its agents or agent by an action in the
name of and for the use of the Village as for money had and received. Nothing
herein shall be held to exempt any person from indictment and conviction under
the provisions of an act entitled "An Act to Enable Cities, Town, Villages and
Fire Protection Districts, Organized Under Any General or Special Law to Levy
and Collect a Tax or License Fee From Foreign Fire Insurance Companies for the
Benefit of Organized Fire Departments", in force July 1, 1895, as amended.
No insurance agent in the Village shall have any insurance business or dealings
with any corporation, company or association not incorporated under the laws of
this State, which shall be in default for not reporting or making payments as
hereinabove provided, until it shall have complied with all the requirements of
this Chapter. (Ord. 64, 4-3-1957)
CHAPTER 12
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Junk Dealers And Junkyards Prohibited
3-12-1: JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of junk dealer or to
keep any junk shop, store or place for the purchase or sale of junk, rags, old
rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass, copper or empty bottles, and no person
shall locate, build, construct, or operate or maintain any junkyard anywhere in
the Village. (Ord. 519, 11-12-1990)
CHAPTER 13
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-13-1: License Required
3-13-2: Applications
3-13-3: Fee
3-13-4: Fraud
3-13-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of hawker or
peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without having first obtained a
license therefor. (1971 Code)
3-13-2: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk and shall state
thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended to be operated; the kind of
article or merchandise to be peddled, and the permanent address of the peddler.
(1971 Code)
3-13-3: FEE:
The fee for such licenses shall be:
For peddlers using a cart, wagon, automobile or other vehicles, for each such
vehicle:
 Annually $25.00
 Daily    5.00
For peddlers not using any such vehicle:
 Annually 10.00
 Daily    2.50
 
(1971 Code)
3-13-4: FRAUD:
Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or through an employee, while acting
as a peddler in the Village or who shall barter, sell or peddle any goods,
wares or merchandise other than those specified in his application for license,
shall, on conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 14
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-14-1: License Required
3-14-2: Applications
3-14-3: Fees
3-14-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to do business in the Village as an itinerant merchant
without having first secured a license as herein provided. For the purpose of
this Chapter, any merchant engaging or intending to engage in business as a
merchant in the Village for a period of time not exceeding one hundred (100)
days shall be considered as an itinerant merchant; provided that peddlers shall
not be considered itinerant merchants. (1971 Code)
3-14-2: APPLICATIONS:
Every application for such a license shall set forth the commodities to be
sold, and the place intended to be occupied or used for the business. (1971
Code)
3-14-3: FEES:
The fees for licenses shall be:
 
Daily   $ 5.00
Monthly 20.00
 
(1971 Code)
CHAPTER 15
BARBERSHOPS
SECTION:
3-15-1: License Required
3-15-2: Application
3-15-3: Fee
3-15-4: Sanitation
3-15-5: Implements
3-15-6: Inspections
3-15-1: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a barbershop in the
Village without first obtaining a license therefor. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-42-1.
3-15-2: APPLICATION:
Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Clerk and shall
state thereon the number of chairs to be used in the establishment. (1971 Code)
3-15-3: FEE:
The annual fee for such licenses shall be one dollar ($1.00) and no license
shall be issued except upon payment of the fee. (1971 Code)
3-15-4: SANITATION:
Premises used for a barbershop shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and it shall be unlawful to permit waste material of any kind to accumulate
therein. It shall be unlawful to employ therein any person afflicted with a
venereal or contagious disease. (1971 Code)
3-15-5: IMPLEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to use in any establishment used as a barbershop any
implements or tools upon any person after the same have been used upon a person
afflicted with any skin or scalp disease without first sterilizing such
implement or tool. It shall be unlawful to use any towel on any customer, after
the same has been used before without having such towel sterilized and cleaned
prior to such second usage. (1971 Code)
3-15-6: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Officer or some other person designated by
the President to inspect every establishment licensed under this Chapter as
often as may be necessary to ensure compliance with this Chapter and all other
provisions relative thereto. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 16
PUBLIC SOLICITATIONS 1
SECTION:
3-16-1: Definitions
3-16-2: Certificate Of Registration
3-16-3: Application For Certificate Of Registration
3-16-4: Issuance And Revocation Of Certificate
3-16-5: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-16-6: Duty Of Solicitors
3-16-7: Uninvited Solicitors Prohibited
3-16-8: Time Limit On Soliciting
3-16-9: License Fees
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  6-2-7-8 of this Code.
3-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Means and includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in
soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITING: Means and includes any one or more of the following activities:
   (A)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
   (B)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   (C)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   (D)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project. (1971 Code)
3-16-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
Every person desiring to engage in "soliciting" as herein defined from persons
in residences within this Village is hereby required to make written
application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. (1971
Code)
3-16-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the Chief of Police of this Village and filed with such Chief. The
applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the
application:
   (A)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address; also business address if other than residence address; also
social security number;
   (B)   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if other
than present address;
   (C)   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married the name of
spouse;
   (D)   Physical description of the applicant;
   (E)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation;
   (F)   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if other
than the present employer;
   (G)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the
soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
   (H)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
   (I)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
certificate under this Chapter, if any;
   (J)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under this
Chapter ever been revoked;
   (K)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter, or the ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting;
   (L)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other State or Federal law of
the United States;
   (M)   Also such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application.
All statements made by the applicant under the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath.
The Chief of Police shall require every applicant to submit to fingerprinting
by the Police Department of this Village in connection with the application for
certificate.
The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration issued under
the provisions of this Chapter, and of the denial of applications. Applications
for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every
certificate issued and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with the
duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued.
No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois
or any other state or Federal law of the United States, within five (5) years
of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter, nor to any person whose
certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as
herein provided. (1971 Code)
3-16-4: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all information
obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the applicant does not
possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein required, and that
the issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant would not be in
accord with the intent and purpose of this Chapter. Endorsement shall be made
by the Chief of Police upon the application of the denial of the application.
When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate of
registration shall be issued forthwith.
Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by the Chief
of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, or has made a false material statement in
the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a
certificate of registration under the terms of this Chapter. Immediately upon
such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the Chief of Police
to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed
to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration
shall become null and void.
The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date thereof. (1971
Code)
3-16-5: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to solicitors,
or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall be given in
the manner following:
A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose
of uniformity the cards shall be provided by the chief of police to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor of
the determination by the occupant of the residence of the information contained
thereon. (1971 Code)
3-16-6: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
village upon which a "residence" as herein defined is located to first examine
the notice provided for in section
3-16-5 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states: "NO SOLICITORS INVITED", then
the solicitor shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the occupant. (1971 Code)
3-16-7: UNINVITED SOLICITORS PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as herein defined, in defiance of
the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of
section
3-16-5 of this chapter. Violation of any provision of this section shall be
punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
3-16-8: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
"soliciting" as herein defined, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or
national holiday. (1971 Code)
3-16-9: LICENSE FEES:
The license fees to be charged for such application are as follows:
   (A)   Solicitations for the support or benefit of any charitable or
nonprofit association, organization, corporation or project: No fee.
   (B)   For applications for a certificate of registration for a period from
one to five (5) days: Ten dollars ($10.00).
   (C)   For applications for a certificate of registration for a period from
five (5) days up to one year: Twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 417, 3-25-
1985)
CHAPTER 17
SIDEWALK SALES
SECTION:
3-17-1: License Required
3-17-2: Application
3-17-3: License Fee
3-17-4: Regulations
3-17-5: Inspections
3-17-6: Penalty
3-17-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, transient merchant,
church, club, charitable institution, hawker or peddler to vend, sell, dispose
or offer to vend, sell, dispose or display any goods, wares, merchandise,
produce or vegetables on any public walk, street, alley or anywhere within the
Village without having first obtained a license from the Clerk for that purpose
and having paid a license fee therefor as hereinafter provided. (1971 Code)
3-17-2: APPLICATION:
Application for license to vend, sell, dispose or display merchandise, goods,
wares, produce or vegetables shall be made in writing to the Clerk. The
application shall contain the name of the applicant, if an individual, the
names of partners, if a copartnership or the names of the principal officers if
a corporation, church, club, charitable institution and shall include the
location of the place or places where such merchandise, goods, wares, produce
or vegetables are to be so displayed and sold. (1971 Code)
3-17-3: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee to be charged for such application is twenty dollars ($20.00).
No license shall be valid for more than two (2) days. (1971 Code)
3-17-4: REGULATIONS:
No street or alley shall be blocked by any merchandise offered for sale
hereunder. A two foot (2') passageway for pedestrians shall be left open and
merchandise shall be securely and adequately placed so that it will not
endanger passersby or fall or extrude into any street or alley. Such sales
shall not be operated in any manner which would cause a nuisance or create a
fire hazard. (1971 Code)
3-17-5: INSPECTIONS:
The Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department shall make or cause to
be made sufficient inspections to ensure the compliance with the revisions of
this Chapter and other applicable provisions of the Village ordinances by the
personnel conducting such sales. (1971 Code)
3-17-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this Chapter shall
be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 18
OUTDOOR ADVERTISERS; BILLBOARDS; SIGNS
SECTION:
3-18-1: Purpose
3-18-2: Definitions
3-18-3: Sign Permit Required; Exemption
3-18-4: Application For Permit
3-18-5: Permits
3-18-6: Fees
3-18-7: Inspection Upon Completion
3-18-8: Appeals
3-18-9: General Standards
3-18-10: Signs Accessory To Residential Uses
3-18-11: Signs Accessory To Business, Commercial, Or Industrial Uses
3-18-12: Signs Accessory To Parking Areas
3-18-13: Signs Accessory To Churches, Schools, Or Nonprofit Institutions
3-18-14: Agricultural District Signs
3-18-15: Billboards
3-18-16: Nonconforming Signs
3-18-17: Variances
3-18-18: Enforcement; Penalties
3-18-19: Removal
3-18-1: PURPOSE:
There is a significant relationship between the manner in which signs are
displayed and public safety, and the stability of the economic value of
adjoining property. The reasonable display of signs is necessary as a public
service and to the conduct of competitive commerce and industry. The
regulations in this chapter establish minimum standards for the display of
signs in direct relationship to the functional use of property as permitted
within the zoning districts which are provided in this chapter. (Ord. 1014, 3-
12-2018)
3-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
AREA OF SIGN: The area of the sign is the entire area within a continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of sign display, including any frame or
border. However, it shall not include any structural elements lying outside the
limits of such display area and not forming an integral part of the display.
The calculation for a double-faced sign shall be the area of one face only.
AWNING OR CANOPY SIGN: A sign painted, stamped, stitched or otherwise applied
on an awning or canopy.
BANNER: A long, narrow sign made from canvas, paper or other lightweight
material secured or mounted on a wall on at least two (2) sides or attached to
a permanent existing structure. Said structure shall include, but shall not be
limited to, fences, buildings, light poles and sign poles.
BILLBOARD: A sign which advertises goods, products, or services not sold on the
premises on which the sign is located.
COPY: Any display or message on a sign surface containing wording, numbers,
symbols, or graphics and intended for visual communication.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD: Any sign or portion of a sign whose display
information can be systematically changed or altered on a panel composed of
electrically illuminated segments. An electric message board shall not be
considered a flashing sign.
FLAG: A sign made from canvas, paper or other lightweight material secured or
mounted on one side as to allow movement by the wind.
FLASHING SIGN: Any sign directly or indirectly illuminated where the source of
illumination flashes on or off, winks or blinks with varying light intensity or
color, shows motion or creates the illusion of motion or revolves in a manner
to create the illusion of being on or off.
FREE STANDING OR GROUND SIGN: Any sign supported by one or more upright poles,
columns or braces placed in or on the ground and not attached to any building
or structure.
FRONTAGE: All sides of a lot abutting a street right-of-way shall be considered
frontage.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outline illuminated by electric lights, tubes or other means of illumination.
INFLATABLE SIGN: Any inflated balloon or lighter than air object greater than
sixty four (64) cubic feet in volume and displayed more than six feet (6')
above the ground.
MONUMENT SIGN: Any free standing sign supported primarily by an internal
structural framework or integrated into landscaping or other solid structural
features where the base of the sign structure is on the ground or a maximum of
twelve inches (12") above ground.
MOVING SIGN: Any sign or portion of a sign which structurally rotates,
revolves, extends, retracts or otherwise is in motion in any manner.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign which was lawfully erected and maintained prior to
such time as it came within the purview of this chapter and any amendments
thereto, and which fails to conform to all applicable regulations and
restrictions of this chapter; provided, however, such term shall not include
any sign or other advertising structure which was erected or maintained in
violation of any law or this chapter.
OBSOLETE SIGN OR OFF-PREMISES SIGN: Any sign which advertises a business which
is not being conducted on or immediately adjacent to the premises on which the
sign is located.
PERMANENT SIGN: Any wall sign, free standing or ground sign, roof sign, awning
or canopy sign designed and constructed to be a fixed in place sign for the
specific purpose intended. Temporary sign(s) shall not be converted to
permanent signs.
POLITICAL SIGN: Signs or posters announcing candidates seeking public political
office in any local, State, or national election.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently affixed to the ground or a building
including but not limited to sandwich board signs, chalkboard signs, message
boards and any sign attached to or displayed on a vehicle that is used for the
express purpose of advertising a business establishment, product, service or
entertainment, when the vehicle is so parked as to attract the attention of the
motoring or pedestrian traffic.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign attached to a building that projects from the wall or
face of the building more than fifteen inches (15").
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected upon, against, or directly above a roof, or on top
or above the parapet or on a functional architectural appendage above the roof.
SIGHT TRIANGLE: The imaginary triangular area formed by the intersecting lot
lines nearest the street intersection, and a straight line joining said lot
lines at points which are twenty feet (20') from the point of intersecting lot
lines.
SIGN: Any structure or device located outside a building designed for visual
communication intended to convey information to the public in written or
pictorial form.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign constructed of cardboard, cloth, canvas, fabric, wood
or other temporary material, with or without a structural frame, and intended
for a limited period of display including but not limited to flags, balloons,
banners, pennants, and portable signs.
WALL SIGN: Any sign painted on, or attached to, the outside of a building,
erected parallel to the wall to which it is attached. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-3: SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTION:
   (A)   No sign may be constructed, erected, remodeled, relocated, or expanded
until a sign permit is obtained in accordance with the following sections in
this chapter. No sign permit shall be issued for any sign unless the sign is
accessory to a permitted use and the sign is permitted by, and complies with
the regulations of this chapter. However, the following types of signs are
exempt from the permit requirements and from the regulations of this chapter,
except subsection
3-18-11(A) of this chapter.
      1.   Flags or emblems of a government or of a political, civic,
philanthropic, educational, or religious organization, displayed on private
property;
      2.   Signs of a duly constituted governmental body, including traffic or
similar regulatory devices, legal notices, and warnings at railroad crossings;
      3.   Address numerals and other signs required to be maintained by law or
governmental order, rule, or regulation; provided that the content and size of
the sign do not exceed the requirements of such law, order, rule, or
regulation;
      4.   Small signs, not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, displayed on
private property for the convenience of the public, including signs to identify
restrooms, freight entrances, and the like;
      5.   Flags, streamers, placards, pennants not exceeding six (6) square
feet in area, and small balloons not exceeding five (5) cubic feet in volume
per balloon.
      6.   Temporary signs, banners, and displays for special church, school,
institutional, civic, or community events that are erected outside public
right-of-way for a period no more than sixty (60) days prior and three (3) days
after the scheduled event.
      7.   Welcome signs erected outside public right-of-way near major
community entrances that contain no advertising other than participating groups
or organizations. Such signs shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Village Board prior to construction.
   (B)   The following types of signs are exempt from the permit requirement,
but must comply with all of the other regulations of this chapter:
      1.   Signs permitted by section
3-18-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a sign permit shall be filed by the owner of the sign or his
agent with the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The application shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the sign, and
agent, if any;
   (B)   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign is to be attached or erected:
   (C)   Position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings or structures;
   (D)   Two (2) prints or drawings of the plans and specifications indicating
the method of construction and attachment to the buildings or in the ground
except for banner, inflatable and temporary sign permits;
   (E)   Name of person, firm, corporation, or association erecting sign;
   (F)   Evidence of written consent of the owner of the building, structure,
or land to which or on which the sign is to be erected; and
   (G)   Such other information as the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall require
to show full compliance with this chapter and all other laws and ordinances of
the Village. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-5: PERMITS:
   (A)   A permit shall be issued for each sign by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer relative to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Sign permits granted under the terms of this chapter are not
transferable.
   (C)   If the work authorized under a sign permit to build has not been
substantially completed within three (3) months after the date of issuance, the
permit shall become void and a new permit is required.
   (D)   The changing of the advertising copy or message on an approved painted
sign or on changeable letter panels or bulletin boards specifically designed
for the use of replaceable copy and painting, repainting, cleaning and other
normal maintenance and repair of a sign structure shall not be considered as
creating a sign and shall not require a sign permit.
   (E)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall determine if the holder of the
permit has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter. The holder of
the permit shall have seven (7) days to comply with the provisions set forth in
this chapter. After seven (7) days, if the signage is still not in compliance,
the permit shall be revoked and signage removed. The permit holder has the
right to a hearing regarding any non-compliant sign matters in compliance with
section
2-5-3 of this Code. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-6: FEES:
For each sign requiring a permit under this chapter, a fee shall be paid at the
time of the issuance of a permit. The fee charged for the various types of
signs shall be as follows:
   (A)   The fee for each portable sign shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for a ninety (90) day permit;
   (B)   The fee for billboards shall be based on size as follows:
      1.   For billboards less than thirty two (32) square feet, the fee shall
be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a one year permit;
      2.   For billboards more than thirty two (32) square feet, the fee shall
be five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a one year permit.
   (C)   There shall be no fee charged for banners, however all banners must
follow the regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   The fee for any special use permit signage shall be in compliance with
section
10-10-2 of this Code.
   (E)   The fee charged for all other signs requiring a permit shall be three
dollars ($3.00) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or fraction thereof of
installed cost, with a minimum permit fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord.
1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-7: INSPECTION UPON COMPLETION:
The applicant who has been issued a permit for construction, installation,
erection, relocation, or alteration of a sign, shall upon completion of the
work, notify the Zoning Enforcement Officer who shall inspect the condition of
the sign with respect to its safety and location. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-8: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Enforcement Officer relative
to the provisions of this chapter may appeal such decision to the Planning and
Zoning Commission pursuant to section
2-5-3 of this Code. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-9: GENERAL STANDARDS:
All signs hereafter painted, constructed, erected, remodeled, relocated, or
expanded shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   Signs On Right-Of-Way: No sign shall be constructed on or project into
the public right-of-way except signs installed by public governmental agencies
and those signs specifically permitted in this chapter;
   (B)   Maintenance; Readability: All signs and their supporting structures
must be properly maintained and must be kept in good repair, and must, where
applicable, be easily readable from the nearest public right-of-way;
   (C)   Illuminated Signs: Illuminated signs shall be shaded wherever
necessary to avoid casting a bright light upon property located in any
residential district or upon any public street or park. Illuminated signs shall
not be lighted in an obtrusive manner or create a nuisance;
   (D)   Flashing Or Moving Signs: No flashing or moving signs shall be
permitted unless specifically allowed in this chapter. No sign shall flash or
move in an obtrusive manner or create a nuisance. No rotating beam, beacon,
strobe, or similar types of illumination devices shall be allowed;
   (E)   Sidewalk Signs: Sandwich board signs, A-frame signs, easel signs, and
similar sidewalk signs may be temporarily placed near the public right-of-way
without a permit. Where a storefront meets the sidewalk, such signs may be
placed on the sidewalk immediately adjacent to the main entrance. All sidewalk
signs must satisfy the following requirements:
      1.   The sign is accessory to an existing business, commercial, or
industrial use;
      2.   The sign does not exceed six (6) square feet in size and four feet
(4') above ground level;
      3.   The sign is displayed during business hours only;
      4.   The sign does not impede pedestrian movement or vehicular
visibility.
   (F)   Signs In Access Ways: No sign shall block any required access way;
   (G)   Signs On Vacant Property: No sign shall be located on vacant property
except a sign advertising the premises for sale or lease which meets the
standards of section
3-18-10 of this chapter;
   (H)   Signs On Trees Or Utility Poles: No sign shall be attached to a tree
or utility pole whether on public or private property;
   (I)   Building And Electrical Codes Applicable: All signs must conform to
the regulations and design standards of the applicable Building Codes. Wiring
of all electrical signs must also conform to the applicable Electrical Codes;
   (J)   Traffic Safety: No sign shall be maintained at any location whereby
reason of its position, size, shape, or color it may obstruct, impair, obscure,
interfere with the view of traffic, or be confused with any traffic control
sign, signal, or device, or where it may interfere with, mislead, or confuse
traffic. Signs erected or constructed on a corner must observe the sight
triangle requirements;
   (K)   Obsolete And Off-Premises Signs, Except As Otherwise Provided In This
Chapter: Except for temporary signs outlined in subsection (L) of this section,
no sign shall be permitted which advertises a business which is not being
conducted on or immediately adjacent to premises on which the sign is located.
No sign advertising a business which has been closed shall remain for more than
ninety (90) days following the closure;
   (L)   Temporary Sign: Any advertiser wishing to utilize a vehicle or trailer
for a temporary sign must first obtain a permit at the Village Hall. Only one
permit per advertiser per calendar year shall be issued. The vehicle or trailer
must be owned by the property owner and the business to be advertised must be
owned by the property owner. Each permit shall be for a ninety (90) day period.
Any cargo container, construction trailer or semitrailer used as advertising
pursuant to this section must comply with all provisions of section
6-3-2-10 of this Code if it remains on the property for more than ninety (90)
days;
   (M)   Portable Signs: Portable signs except banners and flags will only be
permitted or allowed if such portable sign satisfies all of the following
requirements:
      1.   The business must have a permanent sign in order to permit or allow
a portable sign;
      2.   The area of a portable sign may not exceed eighteen (18) square
feet;
      3.   No flashing lights will be permitted or allowed on or in connection
with the portable signs but said portable sign may be backlit;
      4.   There must be a message displayed on the portable sign;
      5.   No more than one portable sign per business may be displayed.
   (N)   Banners: Banners will only be permitted or allowed if such banners
satisfy all of the following requirements:
      1.   Banners displayed on the ground are not permitted;
      2.   Banners attached to poles, fences, buildings, light poles, sign
poles, or any combination thereof, shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   The business or shopping center maintains a permanent sign that
complies with the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   No more than one banner per seventy five feet (75') of frontage;
         (c)   The total area of the banner(s) may not exceed sixty (60) square
feet.
      3.   Banners displayed on the walls or roof of the business or shopping
center are not permitted unless all of the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The business or shopping center has a permanent sign that
complies with all of the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   The area of the banners may not exceed sixteen percent (16%) of
the wall or roof surface to which such banners are attached, and the total
combined area of the banners and all other permanent signs on that wall or roof
surface may not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the area of the wall or
roof surface to which the banners are attached.
         (c)   Where a single building is devoted to two (2) or more business,
commercial, or industrial uses, the operator of each such use may install such
a banner; provided, however, the maximum area of each such banner shall be
determined by determining the proportionate share of the building face
(including doors and windows) of the principal building occupied by each such
use and applying such proportion to the total sign area permitted on the wall
of the building according to subsection (N)3(b) of this section.
      4.   With regard to all permissible banners, each banner may be
temporarily removed or replaced with a banner with a new message thereon from
time to time without the necessity of obtaining a new sign permit provided that
the area of the banner may not exceed the area of the banner for which the
original sign permit was obtained and issued.
   (O)   Flags: Flags do not require a permit, however will only be permitted
or allowed if such flags satisfy all of the following requirements:
      1.   Flags are not permitted, unless all of the following conditions are
met:
         (a)   The business or shopping center maintains a permanent sign that
complies with the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   No more than one flag per seventy five feet (75') of frontage;
         (c)   The area of each flag may not exceed thirty (30) square feet.
      2.   With regard to all permissible flags, each flag may be temporarily
removed or replaced with a flag with a new message thereon from time to time,
provided that the flags meet the above requirements.
   (P)   Inflatables: Inflatables shall be allowed to remain on the site for no
more than thirty (30) calendar days per year;
   (Q)   Political Signs: Temporary political signs shall not exceed twelve
(12) square feet in residential districts and fifty (50) square feet in
agricultural, commercial and industrial districts. Political signs may be
placed only on private property with permission of the landowner or person in
control of said property and do not require a permit. All political signs must
be removed within seven (7) days after the election. Portable signs are not
allowed to be used as political signage. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-10: SIGNS ACCESSORY TO RESIDENTIAL USES:
Each sign accessory to residential uses shall be set back from the street
right-of-way line a distance at least half of the required minimum setback
specified in the district regulations, except for street number identification
signs and signs permitted under subsections (B) and (C) of this section. No
sign accessory to any residential use shall be permitted except in compliance
with the following regulations:
   (A)   Name plate and identification signs shall be permitted subject to the
following regulations:
      1.   For each single-family dwelling there shall be permitted one name
plate not exceeding one square foot in area (excluding the area of the house
number) indicating the name or address of the occupant and, where applicable, a
professional status, but not to indicate a product or business;
      2.   For each multiple-family dwelling there shall be permitted one non-
illuminated identification sign not exceeding five (5) square feet in area
located near the main entrance to the building and indicating only the name and
address of the building and name of the owner or manager thereof; and
      3.   In connection with the construction or remodeling of a building
there shall be permitted no more than two (2) non- illuminated signs, each such
sign not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in area, indicating the names of
any or all of the architects, engineers, and contractors engaged in the
construction thereof, on corner lots four (4) such signs, two (2) facing each
street, shall be permitted. No such sign may be placed or located within five
feet (5') of the lot line or property line of the lot, block, or parcel of
property upon which such sign is located. Any signs permitted under this
subsection (A)3 shall be removed by the person erecting the same within
fourteen (14) days after the completion of the structure indicated.
   (B)   For sale and for rent signs shall be permitted subject to the
following regulations:
      1.   For the sale or rental of real property, there may be no more than
one "For Sale" or "For Rent" sign per lot, except that on a corner lot two (2)
such signs will be permitted, one facing each street. No such "For Sale" or
"For Rent" sign may exceed twelve (12) square feet in area, and no such sign
shall be illuminated. Each such sign must be devoted solely to the sale or
rental of the property being offered and must be removed within seven (7) days
following the sale or rental of the property. A sign subject to the above
conditions with a square foot restriction of thirty two (32) square feet may be
permitted by a licensed auctioneer and is subject to all other conditions and
requirements;
      2.   In addition to one "For Sale" or "For Rent" sign, there may be no
more than one "Open House" sign per lot, except that on a corner lot, two (2)
such signs will be permitted, one facing each street. Each such "Open House"
sign may not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area and no such sign may be
illuminated. Each such "Open House" sign must be devoted solely to the property
being offered for sale and must be removed immediately upon the conclusion of
the open house for that property;
      3.   In addition to one "Open House" sign being permitted per lot,
additional "Open House" signs may be placed at intersections leading to the
subject house for up to four (4) days prior to the open house. All such "Open
House" signs shall be placed on private property after the consent and
permission of the owner thereof has been obtained, and no such sign shall be
placed on Village right-of-way. Such sign shall be removed immediately upon the
conclusion of the open house; and
      4.   Where more than six (6) dwelling units (or lots for dwelling
purposes) are offered for sale or rental by the same party there shall be
permitted one sign facing each public street providing access to the property
being offered. Each such sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area and must be devoted solely to the sale or rental of the property being
offered, and must be removed within seven (7) days following the sale or rental
of the last property offered at that location.
   (C)   Garage sale and yard sale signs shall be permitted subject to the
following regulations:
      1.   For temporary sales of merchandise on private property, there may be
no more than one "Garage Sale" or "Yard Sale" sign per lot or household, except
that on a corner lot two (2) such signs will be permitted, one facing each
street. No such sign may exceed six (6) square feet in area, and no such sign
may be illuminated.
      2.   Additional "Garage Sale" or "Yard Sale" signs may be placed at
street intersections leading to the subject house. All such signs shall be
placed on private property after the consent and permission of the owner has
been obtained, and no such sign shall be placed in public right-of-way.
      3.   All such "Garage Sale" or "Yard Sale" signs may be displayed no more
than four (4) days prior to the scheduled sale and must be removed immediately
upon the conclusion of the sale.
   (D)   Subdivision or development identification signs shall be permitted
subject to the following regulations:
      1.   For developing subdivisions, there may be no more than one off
premises sign directing vehicles to the subdivision from a major arterial road
or street within the Village. Such sign must not exceed twelve (12) square feet
in area and no such sign may be illuminated. Signs shall be placed on private
property after the consent and permission of the owner thereof has been
obtained. Each such sign must be devoted solely to directing persons and
traffic to the subdivision being developed.
      2.   For subdivisions where a preliminary plat has been approved for ten
(10) or more residential lots or dwelling units, there may be no more than one
permanent subdivision or development identification sign on each corner of each
entry street not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in size each. Said sign
must be placed on private property outside the public right- of-way and must
comply with all other standards contained in this chapter.
      3.   For assisted living facilities, senior independent housing, or
skilled nursing facilities, there may be no more than one permanent ground sign
on each street entrance not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in size. Said
sign shall be placed on private property outside the public right-of-way and
must comply with all standards contained in this chapter. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-
2018)
3-18-11: SIGNS ACCESSORY TO BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL, OR INDUSTRIAL USES:
No sign accessory to any business, commercial, or industrial use shall be
permitted, except in compliance with the following:
   (A)   Wall Signs: Wall signs shall be permitted subject to the following
regulations:
      1.   Front wall signs are permitted on the front wall of any principal
building. The total area of such sign or signs shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the area of the front face (including doors and windows) of
the principal building;
      2.   Side wall signs shall not exceed more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the side of the principal building, including doors and windows and shall
not be painted directly on the side of any building;
      3.   Rear wall signs shall be permitted on the rear wall of any principal
building. The total area of such sign or signs shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the area of the rear face (including doors and windows) of the
principal building;
      4.   Where a single principal building is devoted to two (2) or more
business, commercial, or industrial uses, the operator of each such use may
install a wall sign. The maximum area of each sign shall be determined by
determining the proportionate share of the front face (including doors and
windows) of the principal building occupied by each such use and applying such
proportion to the total sign area, permitted for the front wall of the
building;
      5.   Wall signs shall not be projecting signs;
      6.   Signs constructed of metal and illuminated by any means requiring
internal wiring or electrically wired accessory fixtures attached to a metal
sign shall maintain a free clearance to grade of nine feet (9'). Accessory
lighting fixtures attached to a nonmetal frame sign shall maintain a clearance
of nine feet (9') to the ground. In the event that a metal sign structure or
accessory fixture herein described as grounded by the use of a grounding
conductor run with the circuit conductors and protected by a ground fault
circuit interrupter (GFCI), no clearance to grade shall be mandatory;
      7.   Wall signs may be gaseous type or may be illuminated by interior
means of lighting of an intensity to prevent excessive glare, or by indirect
lighting designed to flood only the area of the sign with light and to prevent
light from being directed on surrounding property; and
      8.   Illuminated wall signs shall have shielded silhouette lighting or
shielded spot lighting but shall not have any lighting where the light source
itself is visible or exposed on the face or sides of the characters.
   (B)   Ground Signs: No more than one ground sign may be displayed on a
single lot or parcel with a frontage up to two hundred feet (200'). Lots or
parcels with frontage between two hundred one feet (201') and five hundred feet
(500') may have a total of two (2) ground signs. Lots or parcels with frontage
between five hundred one feet (501') and one thousand feet (1,000') may have a
total of three (3) ground signs. Lots or parcels with frontage over one
thousand feet (1,000') may have a total of four (4) ground signs. All ground
signs are subject to the following conditions:
      1.   All ground signs permitted by this section shall not project into
the public right-of-way;
      2.   The total area of all ground signs shall not exceed one square foot
per foot of frontage, however the area of any ground sign shall not exceed one
hundred sixty (160) square feet on either side;
      3.   No metal ground sign shall be located within eight feet (8')
vertically and four feet (4') horizontally of electric wires or conductors in
free air carrying more than forty eight (48) volts, whether or not these wires
or conductors are insulated or otherwise protected;
      4.   The maximum height of the main body of any ground sign measured from
the curb line or pavement edge shall not exceed the following limitations as
applicable:
         (a)   Ten feet (10') in any B-2 District or when located within fifty
feet (50') of any residential lot;
         (b)   Twenty five feet (25') in any A, B-1, B-2, I-1, I-2, C-1 or C-
2 District; and
         (c)   Thirty feet (30') in any A, B-1, I-1, I-2, C-1 or C-2 District
when adjacent to a four-lane divided roadway with a traffic speed limit posted
at forty five (45) miles per hour or greater.
      5.   Signs constructed of metal and illuminated by any means requiring
internal wiring or electrically wired accessory fixtures attached to a metal
sign shall maintain a free clearance to grade of nine feet (9'). Accessory
lighting fixtures attached to a non-metal frame sign shall maintain a clearance
of nine feet (9') to ground. In the event that metal sign or structure or
accessory fixture herein described is grounded by the use of a grounding
conductor run with the circuit conductors and protected by a ground fault
circuit interrupter (GFCI), no clearance to grade shall be mandatory;
      6.   Business parks, retail plazas, or shopping centers may consolidate
individual ground signs and erect an enlarged commercial center sign, subject
to the following regulations:
         (a)   The sign must prominently display a common name for the entire
shopping center, plaza, or business park. No individual tenant, lot, or
business shall have a panel or portion of the sign exceeding fifty (50) square
feet on either side.
         (b)   The sign may be placed on-premises or off-premises but shall be
located no more than four hundred feet (400') from the advertised business
park, retail plaza, or shopping center.
         (c)   The business park, retail plaza, or shopping center must contain
four (4) or more individual businesses or lots that share one or more common
entrances and are located on a site no smaller than ten (10) acres in total
land area.
         (d)   The sign shall not exceed thirty four feet (34') in height and
two hundred sixty (260) square feet in sign area on either side. The sign must
also comply with any and all sign standards in this chapter, unless
inconsistent with this subsection.
         (e)   The sign must be placed no less than ten feet (10') from any
public right-of-way line, no less than three hundred feet (300') from any
residential property, and no less than five hundred feet (500') from any other
commercial center sign or billboard.
         (f)   Each individual lot within a business park shall have or erect
monument signs only. Sign size and quantity per lot shall be as permitted by
this chapter; however, no monument sign shall exceed eight feet (8') in height
and sixty (60) square feet in area on either side.
   (C)   Roof Signs: Signs must be located wholly within the roof area of the
structure and are permitted subject to the following conditions:
      1.   No roof sign shall be placed on the roof of any building in such
manner as to prevent the free passage from one part of the roof to any other
part thereof;
      2.   Every roof sign, including the upright supports and braces, shall be
constructed entirely of non-combustible materials. However, combustible
structural trim may be used thereon;
      3.   No roof sign shall have a surface exceeding twenty five percent
(25%) of the roof surface, nor have its highest point extended more than eight
feet (8') above the roof level;
      4.   No sign shall be painted directly upon the roof of any building; and
      5.   Every roof sign shall be thoroughly secured to the building by iron
or other metal anchors or supports.
   (D)   Awning Or Canopy Signs: Letters may be painted or otherwise affixed to
any permissible awning or canopy subject to the following regulations:
      1.   Lettering or letters shall not project above, below, or beyond the
physical dimensions of the awning or canopy; and
      2.   Lettering or letters shall not denote other than the name and
address of the business conducted therein or a product or products produced or
sold or service rendered therein.
   (E)   Business Or Industrial District: Nameplates indicating the name and
corporate insignia of the building owner or occupant, address or product may be
located on gates, gate posts, or gate houses; provided that in the case of
multiple occupancy, one name be utilized for identification purposes.
   (F)   Signs Accessory To Automobile Service Stations: The following signs
accessory to automobile service stations are permitted, in addition to the
signs permitted under this section:
      1.   Gasoline service stations shall be permitted one exterior rate or
price sign for each street frontage. The area of each such sign shall not
exceed eight (8) square feet. Such signs shall not contain any advertising;
      2.   Each gasoline service station shall be permitted to display a
maximum of seven (7) signs or items of information; and
      3.   Signs accessory to service stations must conform to all other
provisions in this section.
   (G)   For Sale Signs: Temporary for sale signs shall not exceed thirty two
(32) square feet in area.
   (H)   Projecting Signs: No more than one projecting sign per storefront may
be constructed, provided, however, that such sign:
      1.   Is a minimum of ten feet (10') above ground level and does not
extend above the parapet wall or roof line;
      2.   Is one square foot in area per linear foot of store frontage not to
exceed twenty four (24) square feet, and is not more than six feet (6') from
the face of the building; and
      3.   Does not extend into the public right-of-way except where a
storefront meets the sidewalk. In such instance, the sign shall not extend past
the curb line or into any vehicular area.
   (I)   Electronic Message Boards: No more than one electronic message board
per lot may be constructed, provided, however, that the message board:
      1.   Is attached and subordinate to a permitted wall or ground sign;
      2.   Does not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area and does not exceed
forty percent (40%) of the total area of the sign;
      3.   Displays a copy for a minimum duration of three (3) seconds before
any change in copy;
      4.   Is not a flashing sign, does not display video or graphic animation,
and does not utilize chasing, scintillating, or high intensity lighting;
      5.   Does not display any advertising other than references to the
business conducted on the premises. Civic announcements, congratulatory
remarks, personal salutations, and the time, date, and/or temperature shall
also be allowed;
      6.   Is not located within one hundred feet (100') of any residential
zoning district. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-12: SIGNS ACCESSORY TO PARKING AREAS:
Signs accessory to parking areas are permitted subject to the following
regulations:
   (A)   One sign may be erected to designate each entrance to or exit from a
parking area. Each such sign shall be no more than two (2) square feet in area;
and
   (B)   One sign designating the conditions of use shall be permitted for each
parking area. Each such sign shall be limited to a maximum area of nine (9)
square feet. In parking areas where the parking spaces are reserved, each space
may have a sign designating the parking restrictions limited to a maximum area
of two (2) square feet. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-13: SIGNS ACCESSORY TO CHURCHES, SCHOOLS, OR NONPROFIT INSTITUTIONS:
Signs accessory to churches, schools, or nonprofit institutions are permitted
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   In R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts, there shall be not more than one sign
per lot, except that on a corner lot two (2) signs, one facing each street,
shall be permitted. No such sign shall exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area. Such signs shall be set back from the right-of-way line a distance at
least one-half (1/2) of the minimum setback specified in the district
regulations.
   (B)   In A, B-1, B-2, I-1, I-2, C-1 or C-2 Zoning Districts, signs shall be
as permitted by section
3-18-11 of this chapter.
   (C)   Sign permit fees shall be waived for any tax supported unit or
district. This does not include costs for special use permits or variance
hearings. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-14: AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT SIGNS:
The following signs accessory to agricultural zoning districts are permitted
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Nameplates not exceeding one square foot in area on either side for
each dwelling unit;
   (B)   Bulletin boards for churches and identification signs for schools or
other permitted uses, not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in area when located
on the premises of agricultural zoning districts;
   (C)   Signs not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in area offering for sale,
land, lots, houses, or livestock. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-15: BILLBOARDS:
   (A)   Billboards of the following types shall be allowed:
      1.   Poster panels or bulletins normally mounted on a building wall,
roof, or freestanding structure with advertising copy in the form of pasted
paper;
      2.   Multi-prism signs alternating advertising messages on one displayed
area; and
      3.   Painted bulletins, where the advertiser's message is painted
directly on a wall-mounted, roof, or free-standing display area.
   (B)   Billboards are prohibited in the Village, except under the following
conditions:
      1.   No billboard will be permitted which advertises a business which is
not located and presently being conducted on the premises on which the
billboard is located, except as follows:
         (a)   As may be permitted by applicable State and Federal law, rules,
and regulations along State and Federal highways, or roads under the
jurisdiction of the State or Federal Departments of Transportation, and where
the maximum permissible speed for vehicles traveling upon such highway or road
is not less than fifty (50) miles per hour;
         (b)   The maximum height above grade of such billboard shall not
exceed thirty feet (30');
         (c)   The maximum surface area of such billboard shall not exceed six
hundred seventy two (672) square feet;
         (d)   The lot, block, or parcel of real estate upon which said
billboard is located must have an area of no less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet, and must be zoned for commercial or industrial use;
         (e)   The location of said billboard shall be no less than twenty feet
(20') from the property line of the lot upon which the billboard is located;
         (f)   Said billboard may not be located or placed within five hundred
feet (500') from the nearest lot line of any residential zoned lot, block or
parcel, or any lot, block or parcel use for residential purposes;
         (g)   Said billboard may not be located any closer than one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') from another such billboard whether on the same side
of the highway or road; and
         (h)   Said billboard may not be located in such a place or in such a
manner so as to block the view of drivers of vehicles approaching an
intersection. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-16: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   (A)   Signs which do not conform to the provisions of this chapter as of
effective date of this chapter are nonconforming uses.
   (B)   A nonconforming sign may not be:
      1.   Changed to another nonconforming sign;
      2.   Structurally altered;
      3.   Expanded in size;
      4.   Reestablished after its removal for thirty (30) days;
      5.   Reestablished after damage or destruction if the estimated expenses
of reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of appraised replacement cost at
the time of the damage or destruction;
      6.   Routinely maintained where the costs of such repair or maintenance
exceeds fifteen percent (15%) of the current replacement costs for any period
of twelve (12) consecutive months. However, nothing in this section shall be
deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any
size or part thereof declared to be unsafe by the Zoning Enforcement Officer;
or
      7.   Continued following a change of business, for which the sign
advertised. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-17: VARIANCES:
Variances as described in this chapter may be permitted by the Village Board in
appropriate cases, subject to the legislative intent specified in the Zoning
Code, and the standards established by that code. In all cases the scope of
authority which the Village Board shall have to grant sign variances from the
provisions of this chapter is limited to those as permitted by State Statute.
In addition to any power herein granted to the Village Board, the Corporate
Authorities reserve and retain the power to determine and vary by ordinance the
application to the sign regulations herein contained in harmony with their
general purpose and intent in cases where there are practical difficulties or
particular hardship in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any of
those regulations. No such variance shall be made by the Corporate Authorities
without a hearing before the Village Board. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-18: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES:
   (A)   The North Pekin Police Department is authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all the provisions of this chapter. Whenever necessary,
the officials of other departments of the Village shall give such assistance as
is consistent with the usual duties of their respective departments;
   (B)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the North Pekin police
officers may enter at reasonable times any premises when necessary to perform
any duty imposed upon him by this chapter;
   (C)   Whenever it shall appear that any sign has been constructed or
erected, or is being maintained in violation of any of the terms of this
chapter; or after a permit for a sign has been revoked or becomes void; or that
a sign is unsafe or in such condition as to be a menace to the safety of the
public, a notice shall be issued in writing to the owner or lessee of the sign
or owner of the premises upon which the sign is erected or maintained. The
notice shall inform this person of the violation and shall direct him to make
such alteration, repair, or removal as is necessary to secure compliance with
this chapter, within a reasonable period of time, which reasonable period of
time shall be as follows:
      1.   If a sign is erected without first obtaining the necessary permit,
then a reasonable period of time within which to apply for the necessary permit
shall be twenty four (24) hours from and after the receipt of the notice;
      2.   Where a sign has been constructed or erected or is being maintained
in violation of any of the terms of this chapter, then a reasonable period of
time within which to abate the violation shall be fourteen (14) days from and
after the receipt of the notice; and
      3.   Where a sign is unsafe or in such a condition as to be a menace to
the safety of the public, then a reasonable period of time within which to
abate the violation shall be twenty four (24) hours from and after the receipt
of the notice.
   (D)   Upon failure of the sign owner to comply with the terms of the notice
of violation, the Village is authorized and empowered to remove, alter, or
repair the sign in question so as to make it conform with this chapter and
charge the expenses for such work to the person named in the notice;
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided, the Village may remove or cause to be
removed a sign immediately and without notice if, in its opinion the condition
of the sign is such as to present an immediate threat to the safety of the
public;
   (F)   A sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the premises upon
which the sign is located when the business which the sign advertises no longer
is conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee fails to remove the sign,
the Village shall notify the owner or lessee in writing, and allow ninety (90)
days for removal of such sign. Upon failure of the owner or lessee to comply
with the notice, the Village may remove the sign at cost and expense to the
owner or lessee;
   (G)   Signs may be inspected periodically for compliance with this chapter,
and with other ordinances of the Village. All signs and their component parts
are to be kept in good repair, and in safe condition;
   (H)   Any person, firm or corporation which violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500.00); and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues; and
   (I)   In addition to the other remedies and penalties provided in this
chapter, the Village Attorney is authorized to file appropriate civil actions
for a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction, permanent injunction,
or for damages against any person, firm, or corporation violating said
provisions. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
3-18-19: REMOVAL:
   (A)   In the event that any sign is required to be removed as a result of
this chapter, the Village shall pay to the owner the fair market value of any
sign so removed. Nothing in this paragraph, however, shall obligate the Village
to pay monetary damages to any owner for a sign that is erected after the
passage of this chapter that is in violation of this chapter or for a sign that
is voluntarily altered or removed by the owner. (Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
CHAPTER 19
OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-19-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-19-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-19-3: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3-19-4: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
3-19-5: Municipal Use Tax
3-19-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in this Village at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 .
Every such person engaged in such business in the Village shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by section three of the "Retailers' Occupation Tax Act" 2 .
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
2 2. 35 ILCS 120/3 et seq.
3-19-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this Village in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 .
Every supplier or serviceman required to account for Municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this Village shall file, on or before the
last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of Revenue
required by section nine of the "Service Occupation Tax Act" 2 .
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
transfers of tangible personal property or real estate incident to a sale of
service during the preceding month. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS.
2 4. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3-19-3: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting automobiles in this Village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business while this
Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-7 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the Village shall file,
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by sections two and three of "An Act in Relation
to a Tax Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal
Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June 29, 1933, as
amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 365, 1982)
3-19-4: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this Village an
automobile which is rented from a rentor outside the State and which is titled
or registered with an agency of this State's government in this City at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile while this
Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-8 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (B)   The tax provided for in this Section shall be collected from the
person whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as
being in this Village.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this Section shall be paid to the Illinois
Department of Revenue. (Ord. 366, 1-11-1982)
3-19-5: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   (A)   Tax Imposed: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village hereby
impose a tax, pursuant to section
8-11-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code, upon the privilege of using, in the
Village, any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of government of the State of Illinois, at a rate of one percent (1%) of
the selling price of such tangible personal property, as "selling price" is
defined in the "Use Tax Act", 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/1 et seq. Such
tax shall be collected by the Illinois Department of Revenue from persons whose
Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as being in the
Village.
   (B)   Publication And Notice:
      1.   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to publish this
Ordinance in pamphlet form and to make copies thereof available for public
inspection at her office.
      2.   The Village Clerk is further authorized and directed to transmit a
certified copy of this Ordinance with the Illinois Department of Commerce and
Community Affairs and with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or not later
than five (5) days after the effective date of this Ordinance, which effective
date shall be the first day of the calendar month next following expiration of
the thirty (30) day publication period provided in section
1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
      3.   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice
of adoption of this Ordinance to be published within thirty (30) days after
passage in the Pekin Times, a newspaper of general circulation in the Village.
Said notice shall be in substantially the following form:
   Public Notice
Notice is hereby given that on November 24, 1986, the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of North Pekin, Illinois, adopted an ordinance
entitled: "An Ordinance Imposing a Municipal Use Tax in the Village of North
Pekin, Illinois" and that copies of said ordinance are on file and available
for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk of the Village of
North Pekin.
(Ord. 439, 11-24-1986)
CHAPTER 20
RAFFLE CODE
SECTION:
3-20-1: Purpose And Short Title
3-20-2: Construction
3-20-3: Definitions
3-20-4: License Requirements
3-20-5: Area Limitation On Sale Of Chances
3-20-6: Application
3-20-7: Licensee Qualifications
3-20-8: License Issuance
3-20-9: Conduct Of Raffles
3-20-10: Raffles Manager
3-20-11: Records
3-20-12: Fee
3-20-13: Sale Limitations
3-20-14: Prize Limitations
3-20-15: Chance Limitation
3-20-16: Awarding Of Prize
3-20-17: Penalties
3-20-18: Severability Clause
3-20-1: PURPOSE AND SHORT TITLE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate and control the
conduct of raffles within the Village.
   (B)   Short Title: This Chapter shall be known as the "Raffle Code" of the
Village, and may be so cited and pleaded and shall be referred to herein as the
RAFFLE CODE. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-2: CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this Chapter, the definitions hereunder shall be
observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number; and the plural
number shall include the singular number.
   (B)   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word "may" is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   Words not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with definitions
contained in Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, 1973 Edition. (Ord. 342, 1-
26-1981)
3-20-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the words and phrases listed hereunder have
the meanings designated herein, except when a particular context clearly
requires a different meaning:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The Board of Trustees of the Village of North Pekin,
Illinois.
CHANCE: A number or a combination of numbers, or some other symbol or
combination of symbols, one or more of which chances is represented to qualify
for designation as the winning chance.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and operated
to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those
eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit upon the public.
EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and operated
to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods
common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their
scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported
schools.
FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION: An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of government by caring for those who otherwise would be cared for by
the government.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
LICENSEE: An organization which has been issued a license to operate a raffle.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less sums
expended for prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: Organized, operated, and conducted on a not-for- profit basis with
no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of said operation.
PERSON: An individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation,
government, partnership, or unincorporated association.
PRIZE: The goods, services, money or other items of value or consideration
awarded or represented to be awarded to the winning chance or chances.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 25-2(b) of the "Criminal Code
of 1961", conducted by an organization licensed under this Raffle Code in
which:
   (A)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other means, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
   (B)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION: Any church, congregation, society, or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS ORGANIZATION: An organization or association comprised of members of
which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
VILLAGE: The Village of North Pekin, Illinois.
VILLAGE CLERK: The Village Clerk of the Village of North Pekin, Illinois. (Ord.
342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-4: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell, offer for sale,
convey, issue, or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a raffle unless said
raffle has been licensed in accordance herewith. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-5: AREA LIMITATION ON SALE OF CHANCES:
No license issued pursuant to this Chapter authorizes any person or
organization to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell, offer for sale, convey,
issue, or otherwise transfer for value a raffle chance outside the corporate
limits of the Village and no persons or organizations shall conduct or operate
a raffle licensed pursuant to this Chapter outside the corporate limits of the
Village. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-6: APPLICATION:
Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an application
therefor with the Village Clerk on forms provided by the Village Clerk. Said
application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, and type of organization;
   (B)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated, the
date and state of incorporation;
   (C)   The name, address, telephone number, social security number, and date
of birth of the organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager,
and any other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
   (D)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the raffle;
   (E)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
   (F)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
   (G)   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
the same to be not more than one hundred twenty (120) days after issuance of
the license;
   (H)   The time and location at which winning chances will be determined;
   (I)   A detailed description of the method of determining the winning
chances;
   (J)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of
applicant organization, signed by its presiding officer and secretary;
   (K)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-7: LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS:
Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona fide charitable, educational,
fraternal, labor, religious, and veterans' organizations that operate without
profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously for a
period of five (5) years or more immediately before making application for a
license and which have had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objects. The following are ineligible
for any raffle license:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B), or
(C) of this Section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in
which such person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B), or
(C) of this Section is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated
or not; and
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B), or
(C) of this Section is to participate in the management or operation of a
"raffle" as defined herein. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-8: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
The Chief of Police shall review all raffle license applications, recommend
approval or denial, and submit them to the Board of Trustees within ten (10)
days from the date of application. The Board of Trustees shall, within thirty
(30) days from the date of application, accept or reject a raffle license
application. If an application is accepted, the Village Clerk shall forthwith
issue a raffle license to the applicant. A raffle license shall be valid for a
period of one hundred twenty (120) days from and after its issuance unless the
Board of Trustees has specifically authorized a license for a longer period of
time. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-9: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the licensee;
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate in
the management or operation of the raffle;
   (C)   No person may receive remuneration or profit for participating in the
management or operation of the raffle;
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this Chapter;
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value only within the Village; and the winning
chances may be determined only at the location specified on the license;
   (F)   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
operation or conduct of raffles. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian; and
   (G)   No chance shall be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued, or
otherwise transferred for value to any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years; however, any person may make a gift of a chance to any person of any
age. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-10: RAFFLES MANAGER:
The operation and conduct of a raffle shall be under the supervision of a
single raffle manager designated by the licensee. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond equal in amount to the aggregate retail value of all prizes to be
awarded in favor of the licensee conditioned upon his honesty in the
performance of his duties. The terms of the bond shall provide that notice
shall be given in writing to the Village not less than thirty (30) days prior
to its cancellation. The Board of Trustees may waive this bond requirement by
including a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under
this Chapter, provided that a license containing such waiver provision shall be
granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-11: RECORDS:
   (A)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses, and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are
determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount, and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated from
other revenues of the licensee including bingo gross receipts, if bingo games
are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to license
therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the State, and placed in a
separate account. Each licensee shall keep separate records of its raffles. The
person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds from the
operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the licensee.
   (C)   Each licensee shall report to its membership and to the Village its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the raffle, and the distribution
of net proceeds itemized as required herein. If a license is valid for more
than thirty (30) days the report shall be made monthly.
   (D)   Raffle records shall be preserved for three (3) years, and
organizations shall make available their records relating to the operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 342, 1-26-
1981)
3-20-12: FEE:
A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid to the Village Clerk when an
application for a raffle license is filed.
Said application fees are nonrefundable even should the application be rejected
by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-13: SALE LIMITATIONS:
Chances may not be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued, or otherwise
transferred for value after the time designated in the application made
pursuant to subsection
3-20-6(H) of this Chapter as the time at which winning chances will be
determined. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-14: PRIZE LIMITATIONS:
The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded in a single raffle shall not
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), and the retail value of any one prize
awarded in a single raffle shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-15: CHANCE LIMITATION:
The price which may be charged for each raffle chance sold, offered for sale,
conveyed, issued, or otherwise transferred for value shall not exceed the
following schedule:
 
Aggregate Retail Value Of Prizes           Chance Price
 
Less than $100.00                          $  1.00
$100.00 or more but less than $500.00      5.00
$500.00 or more but less than $1,000.00    10.00
$1,000.00 or more but less than $10,000.00 20.00
$10,000.00 or more                         50.00
 
(Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-16: AWARDING OF PRIZE:
Upon the sale, conveyance, issuance or other transfer for value of any chance,
the licensee shall award the prize or prizes designated as such in the
application made pursuant to subsection
3-20-6(H) of this Chapter. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-17: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this Chapter shall constitute
a violation; and any person, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
3-20-18: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any provision of this Chapter or the application thereof is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such ruling shall not affect any other provisions of this Chapter not
specifically included in such ruling or which can be given effect without the
unconstitutional or invalid provision or application; and to this end, the
provisions of this Chapter are declared severable. (Ord. 342, 1-26-1981)
CHAPTER 21
ADULT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-21-1: Definitions
3-21-2: Adult Uses Enumerated
3-21-3: Limitations On Adult Uses
3-21-4: Measurement Of Distance
3-21-5: License Required; Filing Of Application; Filing Fee
3-21-6: Contents Of Application For License
3-21-7: Issuance Of Adult Use License
3-21-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of License For Adult Use
3-21-9: Exterior Display
3-21-10: Display Of License And Permit
3-21-11: Employment Of Persons Under Age Of Eighteen Prohibited
3-21-12: Illegal Activities On Premises
3-21-13: Severability Clause
3-21-14: Violation And Penalty
3-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively prescribed to them by this Section:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a substantial portion of its stock-
in-trade, books, magazines, films for sale or viewing on the premises by use of
motion picture devices or any other coin-operated means, and other periodicals
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities", or "specified
anatomical areas" or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the
sale or display of such material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which is
licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages, which features topless
dancers and/or waitresses, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar
entertainers.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building or "drive-in" theater
with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
for observation by patrons therein.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building or a "drive-in" theater with
a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used regularly and routinely for
presenting motion pictures having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
BODY SHOP OR MODEL STUDIO: Any public or private establishment which describes
itself as a body shop or model studio, or where for any form of consideration
or gratuity, figure models who display "specified anatomical areas" are
provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by persons paying such consideration or gratuity, or where
for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude and seminude dancing, readings,
counseling sessions, body painting, and other activities that present materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
are provided for observation by or communication to persons paying such
consideration or gratuity.
BUILDING STRUCTURE: Any structure or group of structures housing two (2) or
more businesses which share a common entry, exit, wall or frontage wall,
including, but not limited to, shopping centers, shopping plazas, or shopping
squares.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external soft
parts of the body with the hands or other parts of the human body or with the
aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance with or without such
supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder,
creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations commonly used in this
practice.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment having a fixed place of business where
any person, firm, association, or corporation engages in, or carries on, or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities mentioned in the
definition of "massage" of this Section.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA: Any of the following conditions:
   (A)   Less than completely and opaquely covered;
  1. Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair; or
  2. Buttock; or
  3. Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and
   (B)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following conditions:
   (A)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   Acts or representations of acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, or flagellation.
   (C)   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock,
or female breast.
   (D)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth in subsections (A) through (C) of this definition. (Ord. 354, 8-10-
1981)
3-21-2: ADULT USES ENUMERATED:
The following shall be considered adult uses for the purpose of this Chapter:
   (A)   Adult bookstore;
   (B)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (C)   Adult mini-motion picture theater;
   (D)   Adult entertainment cabaret;
   (E)   Massage establishment;
   (F)   Body shop or model studio. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-3: LIMITATIONS ON ADULT USES:
Adult uses shall be permitted subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   An adult use shall not be allowed within five hundred feet (500') of
another existing adult use.
   (B)   An adult use shall not be located within seven hundred feet (700') of
any zoning district which is zoned for Single- Family (R-1), Single-Family (R-
2), Two-Family (R-3), Multiple- Family (R-4) or Mobile Home Park (M-1).
   (C)   An adult use shall not be located within five hundred feet (500') of a
preexisting school or place of worship.
   (D)   An adult use shall not be located in a building structure which
contains another business that sells or dispenses in some manner alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   Any adult use doing business at the time this Chapter takes effect
shall have one year from the effective date of this Chapter to comply with the
provisions of subsections (A) through (D), inclusive, of this Section.
   (F)   Any adult use doing business at the time this Chapter takes effect
shall have thirty (30) days from the effective date of this Chapter to apply
for the issuance of an adult use license. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-4: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE:
For the purposes of this Chapter, measurements shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property
line of the lot or parcel containing the adult use to the property line of the
lot or parcel containing the nearest adult use, school, place of worship, or
district zoned for residential use. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-5: LICENSE REQUIRED; FILING OF APPLICATION; FILING FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, or carry on, or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the Village the operation of an adult use as herein defined, without first
having obtained a separate license for such adult use from the President of the
Village.
Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate, or conduct an adult use
shall file an application in duplicate under oath with the President upon a
form provided by the Village Clerk and pay a nonrefundable filing fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) to the Village Clerk, who shall issue a receipt which
shall be attached to the application filed with the President.
Within thirty (30) days after receiving the application, the President shall
notify the applicant that his application is granted, denied, or held for
further investigation. Such additional investigation shall not exceed an
additional thirty (30) days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon
the conclusion of such additional investigation, the President shall advise the
applicant in writing whether the application is granted or denied.
Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation, the Mayor
shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for such action.
Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant to the
investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to appear at
any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding said
application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any inspection
or investigation required by this Chapter shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such permit and shall be grounds for
denial thereof by the Mayor. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-6: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The term "applicant" as used in this Chapter shall include any partner or
limited partner of a partnership applicant and any officer or director of a
corporate applicant and any stockholder of more than ten percent (10%) of the
stock of a corporate applicant, or any other person who is interested directly
in the ownership or operation of the business. An applicant for a license shall
furnish the following information under oath:
   (A)   Name and address;
   (B)   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of
age. (Ord. 342, 8-10-1981)
3-21-7: ISSUANCE OF ADULT USE LICENSE:
The President shall issue a license to maintain, operate, or conduct an adult
use unless he finds:
   (A)   That the applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years or under
any legal disability.
   (B)   That the applicant is a person who is not of good moral character and
reputation in the community in which he or she resides.
Every adult use license issued pursuant to this Chapter will terminate at the
expiration of one year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner revoked.
(Ord. 342, 8-10-1981)
3-21-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR ADULT USE:
Any license issued for an adult use may be revoked or suspended by the
President if the President shall find:
   (A)   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this Chapter
regulating adult uses.
   (B)   That the licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this Chapter or knowingly caused or suffered another to
furnish or withhold such information on his or her behalf.
The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his agents, servants and
employees provided, however, that in the case of a first offense by a licensee
where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the penalty shall not exceed
a suspension of thirty (30) days if the President shall find that the licensee
had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and could not by the
exercise of due diligence have had such actual constructive knowledge.
The President before revoking or suspending any license shall give the licensee
at least ten (10) days' written notice of the charges against him or her. The
licensee may within five (5) days of receipt of said notice request a public
hearing before the President at which time the licensee may present evidence
bearing upon the question. Any notice by the President may be delivered
personally to the licensee or be posted on the premises of the establishment
being used as an adult use. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-9: EXTERIOR DISPLAY:
No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation of
any material, depicting, describing, or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" by display, decoration, sign, show
window, or other opening from any public way or from any property not licensed
as an adult use. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND PERMIT:
Every licensee shall display a valid license in a conspicuous place within the
adult use business so that same may be readily seen by persons entering the
premises. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-11: EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER AGE OF EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any adult use licensee or his manager or employee to
employ in any capacity within the adult business any person who is not at least
eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-12: ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES:
No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit any
other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the licensed
premises which is prohibited by an ordinance of the Village or law of the State
or of the United States. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-13: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this Chapter, or any part thereof, or application thereof to any person,
firm, corporation, public agency, or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Chapter or any part thereof. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent of the Board of Trustees that this
Chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional or invalid provision,
clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof not then been included.
(Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
3-21-14: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. A person who is convicted shall be punished by a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a period of not to exceed six (6)
months or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 354, 8-10-1981)
CHAPTER 22
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-22-1: Definitions
3-22-2: Video Gaming Establishment License
3-22-3: Video Gaming Terminal Permit Sticker
3-22-4: Regulations Governing Licensed Establishments Operating Video Gaming
Terminals
3-22-5: Inspection Of Premises
3-22-6: Revocation/Suspension Of License And Permit Stickers
3-22-7: Seizure Of Unlawful Video Gaming Terminals
3-22-8: Monetary Penalty
3-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment that is both licensed to sell liquor
at retail in the village and licensed by the Illinois gaming board to operate a
video gaming terminal on its premises.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including,
but not limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, utilizing a video
display and microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or
credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include a machine that
directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens, or is for amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 966, 3-24-2014)
3-22-2: VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
In order for a licensed establishment to operate a video gaming terminal, the
licensed establishment is required to obtain an annual video gaming
establishment license from the village by submitting a written application, on
a form provided by the village, to the village clerk. The burden is upon each
applying licensed establishment to demonstrate its suitability for licensure.
All video gaming establishment licenses issued by the village shall expire
April 30, next, after the date of issue, with an annual license fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), payable in full at the time the application is filed
with the village. A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for a
time period not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as
provided by law, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered.
(Ord. 966, 3-24-2014)
3-22-3: VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL PERMIT STICKER:
In order for a video gaming terminal to be operated at a licensed
establishment, the licensed establishment is required to obtain an annual video
gaming terminal permit sticker from the village for each video gaming terminal
located on its premises by submitting a written application, on a form provided
by the village, to the village clerk. Each video gaming terminal permit sticker
issued by the village shall expire April 30, next, after the date of issue,
with an annual fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per video gaming terminal,
payable in full at the time the application is filed with the village. (Ord.
966, 3-24-2014)
3-22-4: REGULATIONS GOVERNING LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS OPERATING VIDEO GAMING
TERMINALS:
The following regulations apply to all licensed establishments operating a
video gaming terminal on its premises with a valid gaming establishment license
and valid video gaming terminal permit stickers for each of its video gaming
terminals:
   (A)   A valid village gaming establishment license must be clearly displayed
at all times.
   (B)   A valid village video gaming terminal permit sticker shall be clearly
displayed at all times on each video gaming terminal.
   (C)   No more than six (6) video gaming terminals may be located on the
licensed establishment's premises.
   (D)   Other than having up to five (5) video gaming terminals with valid
video gaming terminal permit stickers, a licensed establishment is prohibited
from having, anywhere on its premises, an electronic video gaming machine that
may be available to play or simulate the play of poker, line up, blackjack,
faro, roulette, craps, slots, or any other card or dice game, or other game of
chance, or that is otherwise akin to a gambling or gaming device under this
code, even if solely for amusement purposes.
   (E)   All video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to
persons twenty one (21) years of age or older. The entrance to such area must,
at all times, be within the view of at least one employee who is at least
twenty one (21) years of age.
   (F)   No licensed establishment may cause or permit any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to use, play or operate a video gaming terminal.
   (G)   No video gaming terminal may be played except during the legal hours
of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages at the licensed
establishment pursuant to this code.
   (H)   The licensed establishment must fully comply with the Illinois video
gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., and all rules,
regulations and restrictions imposed by the Illinois gaming board.
   (I)   The licensed establishment must fully comply with all regulations of
this code.
   (J)   The licensed establishment must fully comply with any and all federal
and Illinois state regulations and laws. (Ord. 966, 3-24-2014; amd. Ord. 1030,
9-23-2019)
3-22-5: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Every licensed establishment where a video gaming terminal is kept shall be
subject to inspection by the chief of police or his authorized agents, at any
time, to ensure compliance with this code, including those establishments
applying for a video gaming establishment license and/or video gaming terminal
permit sticker. It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, resist, oppose
or attempt to hinder, resist or oppose the chief of police or his respective
agents in the course of an inspection. (Ord. 966, 3-24-2014)
3-22-6: REVOCATION/SUSPENSION OF LICENSE AND PERMIT STICKERS:
The village of North Pekin may revoke or suspend any video gaming establishment
license and any video gaming terminal permit sticker issued by the village if
it determines that the licensed establishment has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter. The license and video gaming terminal permit
stickers shall not be revoked or suspended until the licensed establishment has
been given a public hearing before the village board, with a three (3) day
written notice to the licensed establishment, affording the licensed
establishment an opportunity to appear and defend. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any licensed establishment that has its liquor license revoked or
suspended by the village or by the Illinois state liquor commission, or has its
video gaming license revoked or suspended by the Illinois gaming board, shall
automatically, without a hearing before the village board, have its village
video gaming establishment license and all village video gaming terminal permit
stickers revoked or suspended for the same time frame as its liquor and/or
Illinois gaming board gaming license is suspended, whichever may be the case.
(Ord. 966, 3-24-2014)
3-22-7: SEIZURE OF UNLAWFUL VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS:
Every video gaming terminal that does not have a valid video gaming terminal
permit sticker, or is otherwise unlawful, shall be considered a gambling device
and subject to seizure, and shall be turned over to the Illinois gaming board,
in accordance with board regulations and applicable law, unless otherwise
ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 966, 3-24-2014)
3-22-8: MONETARY PENALTY:
Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first offense in a twelve
(12) month period, and a fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for a second offense and each subsequent offense in a twelve (12) month period.
This penalty may be enforced by issuance of a "notice of violation" for the
fine amount, or by issuance of a "notice to appear". Each day any violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. This monetary penalty shall be
in addition to any and all other remedies which may be available to the village
under this chapter, or under any other provision of this code, or federal or
Illinois law. (Ord. 966, 3-24-2014)
CHAPTER 23
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-23-1: Tax imposed; Rate.
3-23-2: Collection of tax by recreational cannabis retailers.
3-23-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon ail persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the Village at the rate of
3.0% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
   (B)   The imposition of this lax is in accordance with the provisions of
Illinois Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax Law, as set forth in
Section 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22), as amended
from time to time.  (Ord. 1029, 9-23-2019)
3-23-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RECREATIONAL CANNABIS RETAILERS:
   (A)   The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue. Any tax required to be collected pursuant
to or as authorized by this Chapter and any such tax collected by such retailer
and required to be remitted to the Illinois Department of Revenue shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers my reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Illinois
Department of Revenue. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power
to administer and enforce the provisions of this Chapter.  (Ord. 1029, 9-23-
2019)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Building Code Adopted; Applicability
4-1-4: HUD Code Adopted; Applicability
4-1-4-1: Manufactured Homes
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the VILLAGE OF NORTH PEKIN
BUILDING CODE. (Ord. 525, 3-11-1991)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this chapter, the words and terms set forth in this
section shall have the following meanings unless the context or use clearly
indicates another or different meaning or intent:
BUILDING OFFICIAL: As used in the 2006 international building code and/or HUD,
this term shall be considered to be a reference to the zoning enforcement
officer appointed in accordance with section
10-13-1 of this code.
HUD CODE: The United States department of housing and urban development
manufactured housing construction and safety standards code, instituted in
1976, as subsequently amended. (Ord. 905, 7-26-2010)
4-1-3: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; APPLICABILITY:
The 2006 international building code is hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter by reference thereto. The 2006 international building code shall be
applicable to all structures designed and constructed within the jurisdiction
of the village. (Ord. 903, 7-26-2010)
4-1-4: HUD CODE ADOPTED; APPLICABILITY:
The United States department of housing and urban development manufactured
housing construction and safety standards code, instituted in 1976 as
subsequently amended, (hereinafter referred to as "HUD") is hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter by reference thereto. The HUD code, including the
electrical and plumbing codes contained therein, shall be applicable to all
premanufactured homes within the jurisdiction of the village. Wherever the
provisions of the HUD code conflict with the provisions of any other section of
this code, including, but not limited to, the electrical and plumbing code, the
provision contained in the HUD code shall supersede and take precedence over
this code. All buildings must comply with either the building code or the HUD
code. (Ord. 730, 9-23-2002; amd. Ord. 903, 7-26-2010)
4-1-4-1: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
All the following must apply for manufactured homes within the village:
   (A)   All manufactured homes must have a garage attached.
   (B)   The land and the manufactured home must be owned by the same person.
   (C)   The manufactured home must be permanently secured to its foundation-
footings or poured concrete walls. The foundation must be of solid
construction, not mounted panels like underpinning.
   (D)   All manufactured homes must be manufactured in accordance with the
national manufactured home construction and safety standards act.
   (E)   All manufactured homes must meet snow loads and wind ratings
established for central Illinois.
   (F)   The roof pitch for all manufactured homes must be at least 5/12. If
the roof pitch is less than 5/12, the owner of said manufactured home must
receive approval from the village planning and zoning commission.
   (G)   All manufactured homes must have interior walls of no less than two
inch by four inch (2" x 4") construction.
   (H)   All manufactured homes must contain at least one thousand one hundred
sixty (1,160) square feet of living space, not including the garage.
   (I)   All wheels and tongues must be removed from said manufactured home and
must be removed completely from the property.
   (J)   All manufactured homes must be titled as real estate, and recorded as
such at the county recorder's office.
   (K)   The village of North Pekin hereby adopts part 3280 manufactured homes
construction and safety standards of the code of federal regulations, housing
and urban development. (Ord. 738, 1-13-2003)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Adoption Of National Electrical Code
4-2-1: ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus, or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected to, any
building or structure within the limits of this Village shall be in conformity
with the provisions set forth in the 1968 National Electrical Code, as amended,
recommended by the American Insurance Association for electrical wiring and
apparatus, which is hereby adopted and incorporated as a part of this Code as
fully as if set out at length herein, three (3) copies of said electrical code
shall at all times be on file in the office of the Clerk. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
4-3-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered
or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limits of the City
that certain plumbing code known as the "National Plumbing Code", being
particularly the 1968 Copyright Edition thereof, and the whole thereof of which
not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the
Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein, and from the date on which this Chapter shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation, alteration or
repairing of plumbing. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Adoption Of Uniform Housing Code
4-4-2: House Numbering
4-4-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM HOUSING CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use and
occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures, that certain
housing code known as the Uniform Housing Code, copyrighted by the
International Conference of Building Officials, being particularly the 1970
Edition, as amended thereof, of which not less than three (3) copies have been
and now are filed in the office of the Clerk, and the same is hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings and other
structures. (1971 Code)
4-4-2: HOUSE NUMBERING:
It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of every house in the Village
to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the street, figures at least
four inches (4") high showing the number of the house. House numbers shall be
of a color contrasting to the background color. Roman numerals shall not be
allowed. In the case of streets which have a "north, south, east or west" in
the address, said numbers shall be preceded by a capital "N, S, E or W" as may
be appropriate. Any person failing to so number any house, building or other
structure occupied or owned by him, or, if after receiving notice to do so from
the Village Clerk, shall continue in their failure to so number such house,
building or structure, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed fifty dollars
($50.00) per day for each day that said house, building or structure fails to
have numbering which complies with the requirements of this Section. (Ord. 677,
9-13-1999)
CHAPTER 5
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition
4-5-2: Nuisance Declared; Prohibitions
4-5-3: Abatement Procedures
4-5-4: Damaged Buildings Within Fire Limits
4-5-5: Notices When Owner Unknown
4-5-6: Authorized Investigations; Procedures
4-5-7: Penalties
4-5-1: DEFINITION:
The term "dangerous buildings", as used in this chapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include any building, house, shed, fence or other manmade structure:
   (A)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition and
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the
occupants of it or neighboring structures;
   (B)   Which, because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or
any other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire
hazard;
   (C)   Which, by reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable
to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of
such structure;
   (D)   Which, because of its condition or because of lack of doors or
windows, is available to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons
who are not lawful occupants of such structure. (Ord. 902, 7-26-2010)
4-5-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; PROHIBITIONS:
Any dangerous building in the village, as defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance. It shall be
unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous building in the
village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person in custody
of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition
or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while it is or remains
in a dangerous condition. (Ord. 902, 7-26-2010)
4-5-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
Whenever the fire chief or the code enforcement officer shall be of the opinion
that any building or structure in the village is a dangerous building, he shall
file a written statement to this effect with the village clerk. The clerk
shall, thereupon, submit the matter to the village board. (Ord. 902, 7-26-2010)
4-5-4: DAMAGED BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS:
   (A)   Repair Or Removal Required: Any frame building or structure within the
fire limits of the village, which has or may be damaged by fire, decay or other
causes to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value shall be torn down and
removed or rebuilt with nonflammable walls.
   (B)   Determination Of Extent Of Damage; Action: Upon written notice by the
code enforcement officer or the fire chief to the effect that such building has
been so damaged, filed with the clerk, the clerk shall notify the village board
of the receipt of such notice. The village shall then appoint three (3) persons
to determine whether or not such building or structure has been damaged to the
extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value. A copy of the notice of the
appointment of this board of three (3) persons to determine the damage shall be
served upon the owner of the premises by personal service or by registered mail
at his last known address. Such notice shall be substantially the following
form:
To.
You are hereby notified that has determined that the building owned by you at
located within the fire limits of the Village has been damaged by fire, decay
or otherwise to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value and that a board
of three (3) persons has been appointed to verify this finding, which board
will hold its first meeting at the Village Hall on the day of                
at the hour of            o'clock, at which time it will determine whether or
not this finding is correct. If this finding is verified by the board, you must
tear down and remove the said building, or rebuild it with nonflammable walls.
If the board of three (3) members determine that the building in question has
been damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value, it shall be the
duty of the owner to tear down and remove said building within twenty (20) days
after the finding of such board or to remodel it to comply with the
requirements for new buildings in the fire limits, and it shall be unlawful to
occupy or permit the occupancy of such building after such finding until it is
so remodeled.
   (C)   Abatement By Village: If the owner of any building or structure fails
to tear down and remove said building or structure within the period of time
required by this section, then the village may abate same as if it were a
dangerous building. (Ord. 902, 7-26-2010)
4-5-5: NOTICES WHEN OWNER UNKNOWN:
If the owner of the premises concerned is unknown or if his address is unknown,
service of any notice provided for in this chapter may be made by posting a
copy thereof on the premises and by publishing a copy thereof in a newspaper
published within the village. (Ord. 902, 7-26-2010)
4-5-6: AUTHORIZED INVESTIGATIONS; PROCEDURES:
In addition to the actions authorized by law, the fire chief, or any other
village official whose duty it is to investigate fires, may make the
investigations authorized by Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 . If such officer
should find that any building or structure is so occupied or situated as to
endanger persons or property or, by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of
repair or for any other cause, is especially liable to fire or is liable to
cause injury by collapsing or otherwise, he shall order the dangerous condition
removed or remedied and shall so notify the owner or occupant of the premises.
Service of such notice may be in person or by registered or certified mail, and
any person so notified may appeal from the decision of such officer in the
manner provided by law. (Ord. 902, 7-26-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 25/9.
4-5-7: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or permitting any dangerous
building or any building or structure to remain in a dangerous condition or to
remain in the fire limits without remodeling as provided for herein after it
has been damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value, shall be
subject to penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 902, 7-26-2010)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Appointment And Removal Of Members
5-1-3: Auxiliary Firefighters
5-1-4: Meetings; Officers
5-1-5: Fire Chief; Powers And Duties
5-1-6: Assistant Chief And Captains
5-1-7: Safety Officer
5-1-8: Lieutenant Of Rescue Operations
5-1-9: Business Manager
5-1-10: Secretary-Treasurer
5-1-11: Collection Of Receipts By The Village Treasurer
5-1-12: Function, Duty Of Department
5-1-13: Members' Rules And Regulations
5-1-14: Members' Residency
5-1-15: Fees For Services
5-1-16: Mandatory Retirement
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby established and created within the Village, a Fire Department
for the prevention and extinguishment of fires. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-2: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
   (A)   Eligibility: Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older, and
having a high school diploma or equivalent, and successfully passes a
background check and screening by the Business Manager and administrative
officers, is eligible for appointment to the Fire Department.
   (B)   Application: Any individual that desires to become a member of the
Fire Department shall submit a written application for membership with the
Business Manager of the Fire Department. The Business Manager shall send the
application to the North Pekin Police Department for a background check. The
Business Manager and administrative officers shall screen all prospective
members of the Fire Department.
   (C)   Appointment: The Business Manager shall report all applications for
membership at the next regular business meeting. Applicants for membership that
have passed the background check shall be voted upon at a regular business
meeting of the Fire Department by secret ballot, and if accepted by three-
fourths (3/4) vote, such applicant shall be placed on a ninety (90) day trial
period. Following the trial period, the applicant shall be given an entrance
examination by the Fire Officers of the Fire Department. If all requirements
are achieved and the applicant is recommended by the Fire Officers, and
approved and appointed by the Village Board, the applicant shall be admitted to
full membership in the department.
   (D)   Approval Of Village Board: The Village Board shall have the final
approval of any applicant. All members of the Fire Department are hereby
declared to be Village officers.
   (E)   Probationary Period: All members of the Fire Department are subject to
probationary period(s) with the Fire Department. The provisions of the North
Pekin Fire Department bylaws regarding probationary period(s) are adopted and
incorporated herein by reference.
   (F)   Training: All members of the Fire Department are required to undergo
training as required by the Fire Department. The provisions of the North Pekin
Fire Department bylaws regarding training are adopted and incorporated herein
by reference.
   (G)   Removal: Any member may be removed from active duty at the discretion
of the Fire Chief. Any member who has been removed from active duty shall have
their membership reviewed by the Village Board. Any member may be removed from
the Fire Department if such removal is deemed to be in the best interest of the
Village by a majority of the Village Board.
   (H)   Number Of Members: The Fire Department shall consist of not more than
fifty (50) members. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-3: AUXILIARY FIREFIGHTERS:
   (A)   An auxiliary membership may be given to anyone who has been a past
member of the department, or any other person who the department shall deem
eligible, provided the member is not an active member of the department. The
name of the prospective candidate for auxiliary shall be introduced at a
regular business meeting and voted on by secret ballot. Once approved by the
Fire Department, the prospective candidate for auxiliary shall be submitted to
the Village Board for approval and appointment.
   (B)   An auxiliary member may hold a voice at business meetings but cannot
carry a vote. An auxiliary member can help around station and with fundraisers
and other department duties, but is not eligible to go on calls. Auxiliary
members will not be eligible for compensation pay or incentive pay. (Ord. 965,
2-24-2014)
5-1-4: MEETINGS; OFFICERS:
   (A)   The Fire Department shall hold monthly meetings as specified in the
Department By Laws. Special meetings may be called by either the Fire Chief or
the Business Manager. All meetings shall be conducted in a manner consistent
with the North Pekin Fire Department bylaws.
   (B)   The Fire Officers shall consist of: Fire Chief; Assistant Chief and
two (2) Captains. No Fire Officer shall be a member of the Village Board. The
Administrative Officers shall consist of: Business Manager and Secretary-
Treasurer. The election of officers shall be conducted in a manner consistent
with North Pekin Fire Department bylaws. All Fire and Administrative Officers
are selected at the business meeting in March each year and all the officers
shall be installed after the Village Board approval at the May meeting each
year, provided however, that the Fire Chief shall be approved by the Village
Board before taking office.
   (C)   The Fire Chief and Business Manager shall each be elected for a two
(2) year term. All other officers shall be elected for a one year term. (Ord.
1024, 12-17-2018; amd. Ord. 1047, 3-22-2021)
5-1-5: FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Fire Chief shall, upon taking office, appoint members to such duties as may
be necessary and proper for the effective operation of the Fire Department,
consistent with the North Pekin Fire Department bylaws. The Fire Chief shall
provide proper training of personnel and adequate maintenance of the department
equipment. In case of fire, he shall take command of the Fire Department and
direct the management thereof for the suppression of the fire in the best
manner possible. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to provide a report at
the public safety meeting of the previous month's calls of the department. The
Fire Chief shall also cooperate with the Business Manager in matters pertaining
to purchasing and budgeting. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-6: ASSISTANT CHIEF AND CAPTAINS:
The Assistant Chief and Captains, in their order of rank, shall perform the
duties of the Fire Chief in his absence and at all times assist the Fire Chief
in the discharge of his duties. They shall assist in proper training of
personnel and adequate maintenance of the department equipment. In addition,
they shall also cooperate with the Business Manager in matters pertaining to
purchasing and budgeting. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014; amd. Ord. 1010, 8-14-2017)
5-1-7: SAFETY OFFICER:
The Safety Officer shall be appointed by the Fire Chief and shall oversee all
fire calls to ensure that safety procedures are followed at all calls. (Ord.
965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-8: LIEUTENANT OF RESCUE OPERATIONS:
It shall also be the duty of the Fire Chief to appoint two members to the
position of Lieutenant of Rescue Operations. ONE member must have an E.M.T.-
B certification or higher degree in medical training and the second member with
an E.M.T.-B certification or an E.M.R. certification, The member with the
HIGHEST LEVEL of medical training and/or experience will be placed as C-5 and
the second E.M.T.-B or E.M.R., will be placed as C-6. (Ord. 1049, 4-12-2021)
5-1-9: BUSINESS MANAGER:
The Business Manager shall have full charge of the administrative functions of
the Fire Department, shall conduct the business meetings of the department and
run the financial business of the Fire Department. In addition, the Business
Manager shall request the North Pekin Police Department to conduct a background
check on any individual who has applied for membership to the Fire Department,
and shall assist in the screening of all applicants for membership to the Fire
Department. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-10: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
The Secretary-Treasurer shall report to the Business Manager and shall assist
the business manager in all administrative functions and shall keep a record of
all meetings of the fire department and the attendance of members at said
meetings. The secretary-treasurer shall assist in the screening of all
applicants for membership to the fire department. The secretary-treasurer shall
keep such other records, make reports, and furnish statistics as may be
required of him by law. The secretary-treasurer shall make a report of all
calls at each business meeting. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-11: COLLECTION OF RECEIPTS BY THE VILLAGE TREASURER:
All funds contributed or collected by or on behalf of the village for the
purpose of providing fire protection, including, but not limited to, income
from contracts with fire protection districts or other municipal corporations,
income from rural fire service contracts, taxes and license fees, shall be paid
to the treasurer of the village. The funds so collected shall, to the extent
required for operation of the department, be expended by the village treasurer
for the purpose of deferring the costs of providing fire protection. (Ord. 965,
2-24-2014)
5-1-12: FUNCTION, DUTY OF DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the function and duty of the fire department and every member
thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires, to prevent the
occurrence or spread of fires, to enforce all ordinances relating to the
occurrence or spread of such fires. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-13: MEMBERS' RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All members of the fire department, including its officers, shall adhere to the
following:
   (A)   Any fireman in attendance at a fire who shall neglect or refuse to
obey the orders of the officer in command at such fires, shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for any fire chief or any assistant or other person
in command of the department to require any person above the age of twenty one
(21) years with or without any horse or team or with or without any motor
vehicle that such person may own or control, to assist in hauling or conveying
any fire apparatus to the place of the fire.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of all officers of the fire department and all
police officers of the village to see that the provisions of this chapter are
enforced and to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of
the provisions hereof or who shall hinder, resist or refuse to obey any such
officer in the discharge of his duty and to that end all such officers are
hereby vested with the usual power and authority of police officers.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of all members of the fire department to comply
with all requirements contained in the North Pekin fire department bylaws.
(Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-14: MEMBERS' RESIDENCY:
In order to qualify for membership in the North Pekin fire department, all
persons shall be a resident of the village of North Pekin, or of the area of
the map attached to the ordinance codified herein. This residency requirement
applies to all members of the North Pekin fire department.
All officers of the North Pekin fire department must be a resident of the
village of North Pekin. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, if no qualified
individuals reside within the village of North Pekin, an individual residing
within the area of the map attached to the ordinance codified herein may be
appointed as an officer of the North Pekin fire department, to any office
except fire chief, upon approval of the fire department and the village board
of trustees. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-15: FEES FOR SERVICES:
   (A)   Vehicle Fires: When emergency response services are rendered by the
North Pekin fire department for a fire in a vehicle owned by any person,
business or other entity who is not a resident of the village of North Pekin,
Illinois, or contracted area, there shall be a charge for fire protection
services to the owner of the vehicle of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   (B)   Extrication From Vehicles: When emergency response services are
rendered by the North Pekin fire department for extrication of any person who
is not a resident of the village of North Pekin, Illinois, or contracted area,
from any vehicle, and the owner of the vehicle is a person, business or other
entity who is not a resident of the village of North Pekin, Illinois, there
shall be a charge for extrication services of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
The person extricated and the owner of the vehicle shall be jointly liable for
the amount due. (Ord. 965, 2-24-2014)
5-1-16: MANDATORY RETIREMENT:
   (A)   The Chief of Fire Department shall retire from the Fire Department at
the age of seventy (70).
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department other than the Fire Chief, shall
retire from the Fire Department at the age of sixty-eight (68). (Ord. 1042, 10-
12-2020)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Aid, Assist Fire Department
5-2-2: Use Of Fire Equipment Restricted
5-2-3: Following Fire Apparatus
5-2-4: Injure, Deface Apparatus
5-2-5: Storage Of Combustibles
5-2-6: Fire Protection Outside Corporate Limits
5-2-7: Fees For Fire Protection Outside Corporate Limits
5-2-8: Outdoor Fires And Open Burning
5-2-9: Key Box Systems
5-2-1: AID, ASSIST FIRE DEPARTMENT:
Every male person above the age of twenty one (21) years who shall be present
at a fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer in command at such fire
and shall render all the assistance in his power, and in such manner as he may
be directed, in the extinguishment of the fire, and in the removal of and
protection of property; provided, no person shall be bound to obey any such
officer unless such officer's official character shall be known or made known
to such person. (Ord. 63, 4-3-1957)
5-2-2: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any fire engine, hose, cart or any
other apparatus belonging to the village for any private purpose other than the
extinguishment of fires, or to remove the same or any part thereof from its
place of deposit, or having the control thereof, to permit such engine, hose,
cart or other apparatus to be used for any private purpose other than
aforesaid. (Ord. 63, 4-3-1957)
5-2-3: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
It shall be unlawful for any automobile, truck or other vehicle to pass from
behind or to follow a firetruck within three hundred feet (300') when such
firetruck is on its way to a fire, or to drive or park an automobile, truck or
other vehicle within a block of any fire. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to drive any automobile, truck or other vehicle over or across any line
of hose in use or lying across any street in the village. (Ord. 63, 4-3-1957)
5-2-4: INJURE, DEFACE APPARATUS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently break, deface or
in any manner injure any fire engine, hose equipment or other fire apparatus
belonging to the village or to remove any screw, bolt, nut or part of any such
engine or other apparatus or in any manner interfere with the working or use of
the same when being used by the proper person or authority. (Ord. 63, 4-3-1957)
5-2-5: STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLES:
No person shall hereafter store any petroleum, any petroleum products, gasoline
or other similar combustible or explosive material within the corporate limits
of the village, subject however to the following exceptions:
   (A)   The storage of petroleum, petroleum products, gasoline or oil in
approved tanks entirely buried or submerged below the surface of the ground.
   (B)   The storage of petroleum, any petroleum products, gasoline, or oil
above the ground in properly marked and identified steel containers, which
products, gasoline or oil, are used solely for heating, cooking or domestic
purposes and used solely on the premises upon which the same are stored.
   (C)   The storage of liquefied petroleum gas for heating or cooking purposes
aboveground in properly constructed containers. (Ord. 378, 8-9-1982)
5-2-6: FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
It shall be lawful for the fire department to provide service for fire
protection outside the corporate limits of the village and the fire department
is hereby authorized to take the firetruck and other firefighting equipment
outside of the corporate limits in such instances.
The fire department shall determine what property shall be so serviced and is
hereby authorized to enter into written agreement with the property owner in
connection therewith.
The fire department shall enter into a mutual aid agreement with any other fire
department to provide that the fire truck and firefighting equipment of the
other fire department shall stand at those times that said fire truck and fire
equipment is taken out of the village for the purpose of servicing property
outside of the village, and the said fire truck and equipment of the village
shall not be so taken out of the village unless a fire truck and fire equipment
of the other fire department shall stand by and protect and service the
property within the corporate limits of the village during said times, so that
adequate fire protection and equipment will be available in the corporate
limits of the village for the protection of all property within the village at
all times.
The chief of the fire department or his assistant, in the case of his absence
or inability to act, shall be charged with the responsibility of complying with
the provisions of this section and the bylaws of the department. (Ord. 393,
1983)
5-2-7: FEES FOR FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
   (A)   For the calendar year 1992, a charge in the following amounts for the
type of structure herein referenced shall be made, payable in advance, for
servicing of the type of structures stated located outside of the corporate
limits of the village:
 
Structure   Charge
 
Residential $40.00
Businesses  70.00
Farm        70.00
 
   (B)   For the calendar year 1993, a charge in the following amounts for the
type of structure herein referenced shall be made, payable in advance, for
servicing of the type of structures stated located outside of the corporate
limits of the village:
 
Structure   Charge
 
Residential $50.00
Businesses  80.00
Farm        70.00
 
   (C)   In the case of business, farm or industrial property which is extra
hazardous because of the size or location of the property, the fire department,
with the advice and consent of the village board, shall determine the amount of
the yearly charge to be made in such instances. Such a determination by the
department, with the advice and consent of the village board, shall be
conclusive on the owner of the property sought to be protected.
   (D)   All fees for fire protection for property located outside the
corporate limits of the village shall be due on June 1. If the fee for
protection of a given property is not paid by July 1 of the year in which it is
due, fire protection for such property shall be terminated until the fee plus
the initial service fee herein provided has been paid.
   (E)   Before any property shall be initially provided with fire protection
or reinstated to receive fire protection after termination of service for
nonpayment of fees as provided in subsection (D) of this section, the owner or
other person interested in such property shall pay, in addition to the regular
annual fee, an initial service fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (F)   Each property to which fire protection is being provided shall be
posted with a sign received from the fire department indicating that such
protection is being provided. Such sign shall remain the property of the
village and must be returned to the village upon termination of service.
   (G)   All funds paid for fire protection provided to any property outside of
the corporation limits of the village pursuant to this section shall be paid to
the treasurer of the village and shall be used by the village in connection
with the purchasing of equipment for or defraying the expenses of operation of
the fire department. (Ord. 534, 5-28-1991)
5-2-8: OUTDOOR FIRES AND OPEN BURNING:
   (A)   The following definitions shall apply to this section:
    GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and refuse.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings. The term does not include
construction lumber of any kind.
   OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment so designed for the purpose.
   REFUSE: Any discarded matter, or any matter which is to be reduced in volume
or otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties in order to facilitate
its discard, removal or disposal.
   (B)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
burn in any manner any garbage or refuse.
   (C)   The burning of landscape waste shall be permitted, but only:
      1.   Between sunrise and sunset.
      2.   On the premises from which such landscape waste is generated and
only if at least twenty five feet (25') from combustible material or structures
on adjacent property.
      3.   Where atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants.
      4.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways.
      5.   If such burning is contained wholly on private property and not on
any public grounds or street and/or alley rights of way.
      6.   If such burning activity is continually monitored and attended to by
a responsible person in charge equipped with a means to readily extinguish said
burning activity, including at least a charged water source.
   (D)   The chief of the fire department of the village of North Pekin may
request the president and/or board of trustees to declare a moratorium on the
burning of landscape waste and upon a showing by said fire chief of
justification for the request, such permission shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
   (E)   The following activities shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section provided they are in compliance with other applicable state and local
laws or restrictions:
      1.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when
reasonably necessary in the judgment of a responsible government official.
      2.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational, and
cooking purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, where consistent with other laws,
provided that no garbage or refuse shall be burned in such cases and provided
further that such burning for legitimate campfire and recreational purposes
after sunset be permitted as hereinafter prescribed.
      3.   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like.
   (F)   The burning of fuels by persons, firms or corporations for legitimate
campfire and recreational purposes after sunset shall be allowed, but only:
      1.   If said burning activity is totally extinguished by twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight.
      2.   If said burning is continually monitored at the site by a
responsible person in charge.
      3.   If adequate means are in place at all times to extinguish the blaze,
including at least a charged water source.
      4.   If said burning activity is wholly contained on the private property
of the person, firm or corporation.
   (G)   In addition to any citation issued pursuant to violations of the
provisions of this section, the chief of the North Pekin fire department or the
chief of the North Pekin police department or official designee shall order the
immediate halt of any burning activity being conducted in violation of any of
the provisions of this section.
   (H)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense and each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 712, 11-26-2001)
5-2-9: KEY BOX SYSTEMS:
   (A)   Definitions:
    FIRE OFFICIAL: The fire chief or his designee.
   KEY BOX: A UL "listed" box, size and style approved by the fire official
that meets the requirements and uses the same security key code adopted by the
fire department.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: The person(s) charged with the responsibility for the
occupancy, building or business owner.
   SECURITY CAP: A fire department connection (FDC) plug and cap approved for
use in the village of North Pekin by the fire official utilizing two and one-
half inch (21/2") national standard thread pattern.
   SECURITY PADLOCK: A padlock approved by the fire official that utilizes the
approved key code utilized by the fire department.
   VILLAGE: Village of North Pekin, Illinois.
   (B)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of this section is to
ensure that when fire breaks out, or an automatic alarm is activated, the fire
official is not delayed from lifesaving or firefighting efforts by locked doors
or gates. To help reduce these types of delays, the village has adopted this
section to provide the fire official access to these structures while still
ensuring the privacy and security of owners and occupants of said structures.
The village shall adopt the specific system by separate resolution which may be
amended from time to time by the village pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Required Installation:
      1.   Key Boxes For Fire Suppression And Standpipe Systems: When a
building within the village is protected by an automatic fire suppression and/
or standpipe system, it shall be equipped with a key box, installed at a
location approved by the fire official.
      2.   Key Boxes For Automatic Alarm Systems: When a building is protected
by an automatic alarm system and/or access to or within a building, or an area
within that building, is unduly difficult because of secured openings, and
where immediate access is necessary for lifesaving or firefighting purposes, it
shall be equipped with a key box, to be installed at a location approved by the
fire official.
      3.   Storage Cabinet: In any building storing or dispensing hazardous
materials, a hazardous materials cabinet may be required. This cabinet will
serve to store MSDS and other information as required.
      4.   Automatic Gates: When a property is accessed through a gate or cross
arm that impedes ingress through required fire lanes by means of a key or swipe
card, it shall be equipped with a key switch to be installed at a location
approved by the fire official.
      5.   Security Padlock: When a property is protected by a locked fence or
gate and where immediate access to the property is necessary for lifesaving or
firefighting purposes, it shall be equipped with a security padlock to be
installed at a location approved by the fire official. It shall then be the
responsibility of the responsible party to see that the fence or gate is
properly secured so that the security padlock is accessible.
      6.   Construction Sites: When a construction site is to be secured by a
locked fence or gate, that site will fall under subsection (C)5 of this section
during the duration of the construction or until said fence or gate is removed.
The security padlock will be obtained by placing a security deposition with the
clerk of the village in an amount set to cover replacement of the security
padlock should it be lost or damaged. Once the deposit has been made, a fire
official will come to the construction site and explain the use of the security
padlock. It shall then be the responsibility of the construction company to see
that the fence or gate is secured properly so that the security padlock is
accessible.
      7.   Security Of Fire Department Connections: When a building is
protected by an automatic sprinkler and/or standpipe system and the fire
department connection is exposed to vandalism, the fire official may require
that a security cap be installed.
   (D)   Nonapplicability To Particular Dwellings: This section shall not apply
to owner occupied one- and two-family dwellings. Owners of single- and two-
family dwellings are encouraged to participate by voluntarily utilizing a
residential security box.
   (E)   Key Box Contents: The key boxes shall contain, but not be limited to,
the following items as designated by the fire official:
      1.   Labeled keys to locked points of egress, whether interior or
exterior of such buildings;
      2.   Labeled keys to locked mechanical rooms;
      3.   Labeled keys to any fence or secured areas not covered in subsection
(C)4, (C)5 or (C)6 of this section;
      4.   Labeled keys to any other areas that may be required by the fire
official for lifesaving or firefighting purposes;
      5.   A card containing the emergency contact person(s) and phone numbers
for each occupant;
      6.   Floor plans of the rooms within the building as required by the fire
official, showing locations of shutoffs;
      7.   Hazardous materials MSDS as required by the fire official.
   (F)   Alert Decals: Alert decals, approved by the fire official, to alert
fire companies of the presence of security features covered by this section,
shall be displayed on any outside doors or windows as designated by the fire
official.
   (G)   Compliance: All newly constructed buildings, not yet occupied, or
buildings currently under construction and all buildings or businesses applying
for a certificate of occupancy and/or building permits will be required to
comply with this section. The cost of purchasing and installing, along with any
costs associated with implementation of the program at a specific property,
will be borne by the responsible party.
   (H)   Limitation Of Liability: The village assumes no liability for any of
the following:
      1.   Any defects in the operation of the key box; any problems with any
keys contained within such key box and/or any deficiency or flaw with the
information contained within the key box or otherwise provided to the village;
      2.   The failure or neglect of any responsible party required to have a
key box to provide such a key box or to provide access to the key box;
      3.   Any breach in security of any structure or property required to have
a key box due to the access to the key box by any person; or
      4.   Any harm, damage or injury to any person or property arising out of
or due to the installation or use of a key box or the failure to install and/or
use such a key box.
   (I)   Violations And Penalties: Any person who violates, neglects or refuses
to comply with any provision of this section shall upon conviction thereof be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense and such person shall be deemed guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day during which said violation,
neglect or refusal to comply shall continue. (Ord. 882, 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Code Adopted
5-3-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the Fire Prevention Code, abbreviated edition, recommended by the
American Insurance Association, being particularly the 1970 Edition thereof,
and any amendments thereto, which code is on file in the office of the Clerk
and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the Village. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FIREFIGHTER'S INCENTIVE FUND
SECTION:
5-4-1: Fund Created
5-4-2: Purpose
5-4-3: Fiscal And Qualifying Years Defined
5-4-4: Qualifications
5-4-5: Participation
5-4-6: Vesting
5-4-7: Distribution
5-4-8: Funding
5-4-9: Board Of Trustees Of The Fund
5-4-10: Powers And Duties Of The Board
5-4-11: Management Of Funds
5-4-12: Records
5-4-13: Amendments
5-4-14: Separability Clause
5-4-15: Effective Date
5-4-1: FUND CREATED:
There is hereby established and created a Firefighter's Incentive Fund. A
monetary fund shall be established, maintained, and distributed as provided
below, and shall be known as the "Firefighter's Incentive Fund" hereinafter
referred to as Fund. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Fund is to improve and encourage the attendance of
firefighters at all drills, cleanups and business meetings conducted by the
Village Fire Department. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-3: FISCAL AND QUALIFYING YEARS DEFINED:
   (A)   Fiscal Year: "Fiscal year" shall mean the period of time from May 1 of
any given year to April 30 of the following year.
   (B)   Qualifying Year: "Qualifying year" shall mean the period of time from
May 1 of any given year to April 30 of the following year and shall be used as
the time period in which a firefighter must meet the qualifications set forth
in Section
5-4-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
In order to participate in and qualify for deposits in an account from the Fund
one must comply with the following during the qualifying year:
   (A)   One must be an active firefighter for the Village Fire Department as
of May 1 of any given year.
   (B)   One must requalify to participate in the Fund each year.
   (C)   One must be in attendance at fifty percent (50%) of the time during
the qualifying year for all of the following:
      1.   Drills,
      2.   Cleanups,
      3.   Business meetings.
   (D)   Absences to the activities described in subsection (C) of this Section
shall only be excused if they are in advance by one member of the Village Fire
Department's business committee.
   (E)   The business committee shall consist of the following:
      1.   Village Fire Chief,
      2.   Secretary-treasurer of the Village Fire Department,
      3.   Business manager of the Village Fire Department.
   (F)   The board of trustees of the Fund shall determine each year on the
basis of the criteria set forth in this Section which firefighters qualify to
participate in the Fund and shall promptly notify the manager of the funds to,
deposit the appropriate funds into the qualifying firefighter's account
pursuant to Section
5-4-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-5: PARTICIPATION:
   (A)   Generally: When a firefighter complies with the qualifications set
forth in Section
5-4-4 of this Chapter, he is entitled to a share of the funds deposited into
the Fund by the Board of Trustees of the Village as provided in Section
5-4-7 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Annual Deposit: The funds deposited each year into the Fund shall be
divided equally among all of the firefighters qualifying in a given qualifying
year and each firefighter's share shall be deposited into a separate account
established for each qualifying firefighter as provided in subsection
5-4-11(B) of this Chapter.
   (C)   Qualification Prerequisite To Deposit: Funds shall only be deposited
in a firefighter's account during a year he qualifies, and during the year or
years he does not meet the qualifications set forth in Section
5-4-4 of this Chapter, no funds shall be deposited in his account and the
amount deposited into the Fund pursuant to Section
5-4-8 of this Chapter shall be split equally among only the firefighters
qualifying that year and deposited in their accounts.
   (D)   Discontinuance Of Service: When a firefighter discontinues service on
the Village Fire Department, he shall no longer be entitled to participate in
the Fund. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-6: VESTING:
   (A)   Vesting Period: A firefighter shall fully vest in the Fund when he has
served on the Village Fire Department for a total of ten (10) consecutive
years. This does not mean that he must qualify every year during the ten (10)
year period.
Firefighters who are currently on the Village Fire Department shall be
permitted to include past service in determining whether they have vested
provided said service is uninterrupted and consecutive with their present
service on the Department.
   (B)   Departure Before Vesting: If a firefighter leaves the service of the
Village Fire Department before he completes the ten (10) year vesting period
and does not return within one year of his departure, he shall lose his rights
to the funds that have accumulated in his account. The funds placed in his
account pursuant to Section
5-4-11 of this Chapter, shall be equally distributed among the accounts of
those who are qualified during the year as of the one year anniversary date of
said firefighter's departure.
   (C)   Return To Service Within One Year: If a firefighter leaves the service
of the Village Fire Department before he completes the ten (10) year vesting
period but returns within one year of his departure, he shall not qualify to
participate if he fails to meet the criteria provided in Section
5-4-4 of this Chapter. However, his vesting period shall continue uninterrupted
as if he never left the Village Fire Department and the funds in his account
shall remain intact and for his benefit.
   (D)   Transfer Of Ownership Of Account: Once a firefighter becomes vested,
the ownership on his account shall be transferred from the board of trustees of
the Fund to the name of said firefighter, and he shall become entitled to
distributions as provided in Section
5-4-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-7: DISTRIBUTION:
   (A)   Generally: Once the board of trustees of the Fund has determined that
a firefighter is fully vested in the Fund, then said firefighter may request
distribution of the funds held in his account. No firefighter shall request a
distribution and no distribution shall be made from an account until the
firefighter is fully vested.
   (B)   Requests: Requests for distribution by a firefighter shall be in
writing and be made to the board of trustees of the Fund. Said Board shall
submit the request to the manager of the Fund for a distribution from the
firefighter's account as provided in Section
5-4-11 of this Chapter.
   (C)   Time And Amount Of Distribution:
      1.   Retention: A firefighter shall not be obligated to remove his funds
from his account at the time he becomes vested and may leave them in his
account until he so chooses to request a distribution.
      2.   Time: A vested firefighter shall be entitled to make periodic
requests for distributions from his account at any time after the date he
becomes vested.
      3.   Amount: A vested firefighter may request distributions from his
account in any amount, so long as the amount does not exceed the total funds
retained in his account.
   (D)   Permanent Disability Or Death:
      1.   Disability: Should a firefighter be forced to discontinue service on
the village fire department before he is fully vested due to permanent
disability, as defined by the social security administration, upon request to
the board of trustees of the fund, the funds retained in the account held for
his benefit shall be distributed to him.
      2.   Death: Should a firefighter die before he is fully vested in the
fund, the board of trustees of the fund shall distribute to his beneficiary the
funds retained in the account for his benefit. At the time an individual
becomes a firefighter he shall submit to the board of trustees of the fund a
designation of beneficiary form indicating the individual or individuals to
whom the funds held for his benefit shall be distributed if he should die
before he becomes fully vested. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-8: FUNDING:
Funding shall be allocated and distributed to the firefighter's incentive fund
on an annual basis from the general funds of the village of North Pekin. The
village shall allocate and place in the firefighter's incentive fund in the
month of February of each year a minimum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
(Ord. 799, 5-8-2006)
5-4-9: BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE FUND:
The board of trustees of the fund shall consist of the following members:
   (A)   Fire chief of the village.
   (B)   President of the village.
   (C)   Public safety director of the village.
   (D)   Secretary-treasurer of the village fire department.
   (E)   Clerk of the village. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-10: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD:
   (A)   Oath And Bond: The members of the board of trustees of the fund shall
subscribe to the oath as required by section
1-5-3 of this code and shall secure a surety bond as required by section
1-5-4 of this code before entering upon the duties as trustees of the fund.
   (B)   Meetings: There shall be no regular meetings to be held by the board
of trustees of the fund. Special meetings of the board of trustees of the fund
may be called by the fire chief or any three (3) trustees of the fund by filing
with the village clerk a notice of such meeting in writing, stating the time
and place of such meeting and the object for which said meeting is called;
provided, that if all of the trustees and the fire chief are present at a
special meeting, no notice of the meeting shall be necessary, and such notice
shall be deemed waived. The chief of police shall thereupon deliver a copy of
such notice to the fire chief and each member of the board of trustees of the
fund at least twenty four (24) hours before the time of such meeting.
   (C)   Presiding Officer: The fire chief shall be the presiding officer of
all meetings of said board of trustees of the fund. During the absence of or
disability of the fire chief, the board may select one of its number as
presiding officer.
   (D)   Quorum: A majority of the trustees of the fund shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but no action or business shall be passed except upon a
favorable vote of a majority of the members.
   (E)   Order Of Business: The order of business of the board of trustees of
the fund shall be the same as that provided in section
1-6-7 of this code.
   (F)   Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the
deliberations of the board of trustees of the fund except when in conflict with
any of the foregoing provisions.
   (G)   Placement Of Funds: The board of trustees of the fund shall place the
funds it receives with an insurance agent or bank of its choice, and the board
of trustees of the fund shall have the sole voice in determining the placement
of said funds.
   (H)   Ownership Of Funds: The board of trustees of the fund shall be vested
with ownership of the funds as trustee for and for the benefit of the
individual qualifying firefighter until such time as said firefighter becomes
fully vested with ownership. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-11: MANAGEMENT OF FUNDS:
   (A)   Deposit And Investment: The insurance agent or bank, hereinafter
referred to as agent, appointed by the board of trustees of the Fund shall
deposit said funds with an insurance company for investment in a safe and
secure manner, until such time as the agent is required by the board of
trustees of the Fund.
   (B)   Maintenance Of Separate Accounts: The agent shall maintain the funds
it receives in a separate account for each qualified firefighter.
   (C)   Management: The agent shall have full authority to determine the place
of investment of the funds and may change the type of investment at its sole
discretion without the approval of the board of trustees of the Fund. (Ord.
413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-12: RECORDS:
The Clerk of the Village shall perform for the board of trustees of the Fund
the following duties:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the board of trustees of the Fund and keep a
full record of their proceedings as provided for that purpose.
   (B)   Maintain complete and adequate records relating to all other aspects
of the Fund. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-13: AMENDMENTS:
Only the Board of Trustees of the Village shall have the power to amend this
Code with respect to the Firefighter's Incentive Fund. However, a majority of
the members of the board of trustees of the Firefighter's Incentive Fund shall
have the right to make recommendations regarding amendments to the Village
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-14: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
The provisions and sections of this Chapter shall be deemed separable, and the
invalidity of any portion of this Chapter shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. (Ord. 413, 12-10-1984)
5-4-15: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law. (Ord. 413, 12-10-
1984)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created
6-1-2: Appointment And Removal Of Members
6-1-3: Rank
6-1-4: Duties Of Chief Of Police
6-1-4-1: Use Of Police Equipment Restricted
6-1-5: Duties Of Police Officers
6-1-6: Power Of Arrest; President And Village Board
6-1-7: Call For Assistance
6-1-8: Serving Process
6-1-9: Conduct Of Members
6-1-10: Witness Fees
6-1-11: Rules And Regulations
6-1-12: Special Police
6-1-13: Stolen Property; Custody Of
6-1-14: Rewards
6-1-15: Tenure
6-1-16: Reserve Police Department
6-1-16-1:    Qualifications
6-1-16-2:    Duties Of Reserve Police
6-1-16-3:    Uniforms Required
6-1-16-4:    Weapons Prohibited
6-1-16-5:    Compensation
6-1-16-6:    Instructional Meetings
6-1-16-7:    Applications For Membership
6-1-16-8:    Conduct Of Members
6-1-16-9:    Membership Limited
6-1-16-10:    Effective Date
6-1-17: Membership Of Regular Police Department
6-1-18: Part Time Officers
6-1-19: Mandatory Retirement
6-1-20: Shooting Range
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED 1 :
There is hereby created a Police Department for the Village which shall consist
of the Chief of Police, who shall be ex officio Superintendent of Police, and
such other members as may be provided for by the Board of Trustees. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4.
6-1-2: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the President with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. An appointee to the position of Chief of
Police shall move within the corporate limits of the Village. All members of
the Police Department, as may from time to time be determined necessary, shall
be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. Any member may be removed from the Police Department by the President
pursuant to section
3-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code. (Ord. 414, 8-27-1984)
6-1-3: RANK:
The Chief of Police shall be the head of the department and have supervision
over all officers, following him in rank shall be two (2) Sergeants, subject to
the order and direction of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 1013, 2-26-2018)
6-1-4: DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer of the police force and
shall have control of the assignment of all officers of the force and the
direction and supervision of police work in the Village, including any special
police officers under his command, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. The Chief shall attend as far as practicable all meetings of the
Village Board, and he shall prepare the room in which the Board meetings are
held, and see that it is properly lighted, warmed, cleaned and made
comfortable. He shall serve all notifications in writing when ordered by the
Village Board; and he shall perform all such other duties as shall be
prescribed by ordinance or by order of the Board. (Ord. 414, 8-27-1984)
6-1-4-1: USE OF POLICE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any police vehicle, or any other
equipment belonging to the Village for any private purpose other than for
police protection, or to remove the same or any part thereof from its place of
deposit, or having the control thereof, to permit such vehicle, or equipment to
be used for any private purpose other than aforesaid. (Ord. 414, 8-27-1984)
6-1-5: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all the ordinances of the Village and all statutes applicable
therein; and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof. (1971 Code)
6-1-6: POWER OF ARREST; PRESIDENT AND VILLAGE BOARD:
As provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-9-4, the President and Board
of Trustees shall have the following power:
   (A)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace, or are found violating any Municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the State;
   (B)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
   (C)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper
magistrate; and
   (D)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
Village authorities may prescribe. (1971 Code)
6-1-7: CALL FOR ASSISTANCE:
The President and the Village Board or any police officer of the Village may at
any time call upon any able-bodied male person above the age of twenty one (21)
years to aid him in arresting or taking into custody any person guilty of
having committed an unlawful act, or charged therewith, or to aid such officer
in preventing the commission of an unlawful act. No one shall refuse or neglect
to give such aid or assistance when so directed. (Ord. 414, 8-27-1984)
6-1-8: SERVING PROCESS:
No member of the Police Department, except the Chief, shall serve any process
except on command of the Chief of the Police Department. (1971 Code)
6-1-9: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself, or herself, in a proper and law abiding manner at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the Department shall obey
the orders and directions of his superior. (1971 Code)
6-1-10: WITNESS FEES:
Every member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever this is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any State or
Federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
in any action or suit to which the Village is a party; any fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the Chief, who shall deposit the same with the
Village Treasurer. (1971 Code)
6-1-11: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Chief of the Police Department may make or prescribe such rules and
regulations as he shall deem advisable; such rules, when approved by the Board
of Trustees, shall be binding on such members. Such rules and regulations may
cover, besides the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or
carried, hours of service, vacations and all other similar matters necessary or
desirable for the better efficiency of the Department. (1971 Code)
6-1-12: SPECIAL POLICE:
Any person of good character having duties which require it, may be appointed
by a special policeman by the President, provided that, except upon
authorization by the Board of Trustees, no such special policeman shall be
entitled to any compensation from the Village, nor shall such special policeman
be considered an employee of the Village by reason of such appointment.
Special policemen shall obey all rules of the Police Department applicable to
them, and may be deprived of their appointment by the Chief at any time. (1971
Code)
6-1-13: STOLEN PROPERTY; CUSTODY OF:
The Chief of Police shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property recovered in the Village. (1971 Code)
6-1-14: REWARDS:
It shall be cause for removal for any member of the force to receive a reward
or present for services rendered in the due discharge of his duty without the
permission of the Chief of Police. (1971 Code)
6-1-15: TENURE:
The Chief of Police shall serve for a term of one year and may be removed in
the manner provided for the removal of officers. (1971 Code)
6-1-16: RESERVE POLICE DEPARTMENT:
6-1-16-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be a member of the North Pekin Auxiliary Police Department
unless he or she meets the following qualifications:
   (A)   The applicant shall be at least twenty one (21) years of age;
   (B)   The applicant shall be a person of good character and repute;
   (C)   The applicant shall be a resident of the Village; and passed such
examinations and qualifications as may be prescribed by the Chief of Police and
approved by the Village Board;
   (D)   Auxiliary policemen shall be appointed by the President with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 414, 8-27-1984)
6-1-16-2: DUTIES OF RESERVE POLICE:
It shall be the duty of such reserve police to direct traffic and provide such
assistance to the regular Police Department as may be appropriate and to the
best interest of the Village's law enforcement. (Ord. 274, 2-9-1976)
6-1-16-3: UNIFORMS REQUIRED:
All members of the said reserve police force shall wear such uniforms or
identifying apparel as shall be designated and approved by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 274, 2-9-1976)
6-1-16-4: WEAPONS PROHIBITED:
No member of the North Pekin Reserve Police Department shall carry any gun or
weapon except under the specific direction of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 274,
2-9-1976)
6-1-16-5: COMPENSATION:
No member of the North Pekin Reserve Police Department shall receive any
compensation for their services. (Ord. 274, 2-9-1976)
6-1-16-6: INSTRUCTIONAL MEETINGS:
For the purpose of training and instructing the members of the North Pekin
Reserve Police Department there shall be held monthly meetings. The time and
place of the meetings shall be designated by the Chief of Police. (Ord. 274, 2-
9-1976)
6-1-16-7: APPLICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP:
Applications for membership in the North Pekin Reserve Police Department shall
be made to the Chief of Police in writing on such forms as he shall designate.
(Ord. 274, 2-9-1976)
6-1-16-8: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
The operation and conduct of said Reserve Police Department shall be governed
by the regular established Police Department rules, policies and procedures and
any additional rules deemed necessary by the Chief of Police. (Ord. 274, 2-9-
1976)
6-1-16-9: MEMBERSHIP LIMITED:
The membership shall be limited to not more than six (6) members at any time.
(Ord. 414, 8-27-1984)
6-1-16-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and ten (10) day period of publication as provided by law. (Ord. 274,
2-9-1976)
6-1-17: MEMBERSHIP OF REGULAR POLICE DEPARTMENT:
The membership of the regular Police Department shall be in such number,
including the Chief and the Sergeants, as shall be determined from time to time
by resolution of the President and Board of Trustees. No increase in the
membership or replacement of a terminated member on the regular Police
Department shall be made without the specific approval of the President and
Board of Trustees. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to limit
replacement of officers who are on temporary leave for any reason. Any Police
Department absences may be filled with a temporary officer, as needed. (Ord.
624, 8-26-1996; amd. Ord. 1013, 2-26-2018)
6-1-18: PART TIME OFFICERS:
   (A)   All police officers, other than those officers who shall be employed
on a full time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully complete any
training mandated by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   (B)   The aforesaid hiring standard, particularly with respect to part time
police officers employed by the Village, shall be submitted to the Illinois Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board, as required by statute. (Ord. 629, 3-10-
1997)
   (C)   1. Employment: The Village of North Pekin may employ part time police
officers from time to time as it deems necessary.
      2.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in the general orders of the Village of North Pekin Police
Department, but the number of hours a part time police officer may work within
a calendar year is restricted. Part time police officers shall not be assigned
to supervise or direct full time police officers. Part time police officers
shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois Police Training Act 1  and the
rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
      3.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound
health, and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
         (b)   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
         (c)   Pass a medical examination.
         (d)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
         (e)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
         (f)   Possess no prior felony convictions.
         (g)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have
been honorably discharged.
      4.   Discipline: Part time police officers shall be under the
disciplinary jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part time police officers
serve at the discretion of the Village of North Pekin Authorities, shall not
have any property rights in said employment, and may be removed by the Village
Authorities at any time. Part time police officers shall comply with all
applicable rules and general orders issued by the Police Department. (Ord. 949,
1-14-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
6-1-19: MANDATORY RETIREMENT:
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall retire from the Police Department at the age
of seventy (70).
   (B)   All police officers, all special police officers, all reserve police
officers and all part-time police officers, other than the Chief of the Police,
shall retire from the Police Department at the age of sixty-eight (68). (Ord.
1032, 1-27-2020; amd. Ord. 1041, 10-12-2020)
6-1-20: SHOOTING RANGE:
A Range Committee consisting of the President, Chairperson of Public Safety and
the Chief of Police shall have overall supervision over the North Pekin Police
Department Shooting Range. The Chief of Police shall have day-to-day
supervision over the Shooting Range as well as supervision over the Range
Master.
The Chief of Police shall designate a member of the North Pekin Police
Department to be the Range Master. The President, with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees, shall have final approval of the Range Master.
The Shooting Range shall only have inanimate objects placed on the Shooting
Range as targets for shooting practice.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be on or within the Shooting Range
without the express permission of the Chief of Police.
The Shooting Range shall be used exclusively by the North Pekin Police
Department Officers. At the discretion of the Chief of Police, other duly
authorized Police Officers from other Police Departments may use the Shooting
Range only if the North Pekin Range Master is present. A fee shall be set by
the Range Committee for such usage, subject to the approval and/or review of
the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 1046, 3-8-2021)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANOR CODE
ARTICLE I.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1-1: Short Title
6-2-1-2: Village Jurisdiction
6-2-1-3: Civil Remedies Preserved
6-2-1-4: Penalties
6-2-1-5: Definitions
6-2-1-6: Saving Clause
6-2-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as the MISDEMEANOR CODE OF NORTH
PEKIN, ILLINOIS. (1971 Code)
6-2-1-2: VILLAGE JURISDICTION:
   (A)   A person is subject to prosecution in this village for an offense
which he commits, while either within or outside the village, by his own
conduct or that of another for which he is legally accountable, if:
      1.   The offense is committed either wholly or partly within the village;
or
      2.   The conduct outside the village constitutes an attempt to commit an
offense within the village; or
      3.   The conduct outside the village constitutes a conspiracy to commit
an offense within the village and an act in furtherance of the conspiracy
occurs in the village; or
      4.   The conduct within the village constitutes an attempt, solicitation
or conspiracy to commit in another jurisdiction an offense under the laws of
both this village and such other jurisdiction.
   (B)   An offense is committed partly within this village if either the
conduct which is an element of the offense or the result which is such an
element, occurs within the village.
   (C)   An offense which is based on an omission to perform a duty imposed by
the laws of this village is committed within the village regardless of the
location of the offender at the time of the omission. (1971 Code)
6-2-1-3: CIVIL REMEDIES PRESERVED:
This chapter does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any right or liability
to damages, penalty, forfeiture or other remedy authorized by law to be
recovered or enforced in a civil action for any conduct which this chapter
makes punishable; and the civil injury is not merged in the offense. (1971
Code)
6-2-1-4: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, violations of any
provision thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not less than fifteen
dollars ($15.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the first
offense, and not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for subsequent violations of the same provision. (1971 Code)
6-2-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: Includes a failure or omission to take action.
AIR RIFLE: Means and includes an air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring
pistol, BB gun or pellet gun which impels a pellet constructed of hard plastic,
steel, lead, stone or other hard materials with force that reasonably is
expected to cause bodily harm or property damage.
ANOTHER: A person or persons as defined in this Chapter other than the
offender.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation, government, partnership
or unincorporated association. The masculine gender shall include the feminine,
and the singular shall include the plural.
POLICE OFFICER: Any person who by virtue of his office or public employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: A person, other than a public officer, who is authorized to
perform any official function on behalf of, and is paid by, the Village or any
of its subdivisions or agencies.
PUBLIC OFFICER: A person who is elected to office pursuant to a statute or
ordinance, or who is appointed to an office which is established, and the
qualifications and duties of which are prescribed by statute or ordinance to
discharge a public duty for the Village or any of its subdivisions or agencies.
REASONABLE BELIEF OR REASONABLY BELIEVES: The person concerned, acting as a
reasonable man, believes that the described facts exist. (1971 Code)
6-2-1-6: SAVING CLAUSE:
If any part, article, section or subdivision of this Chapter shall be held
unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed
to invalidate or impair the remaining provisions of this Chapter, which shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such holding. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE II.  CIVIL EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2-2: Declaration Of Emergency
6-2-2-3: General Curfew
6-2-2-4: General Orders
6-2-2-5: Duration Of Proclamation
6-2-2-6: Notice Of Proclamation
6-2-2-7: Violation And Penalties
6-2-2-8: Construction
6-2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: (A) Any riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute, by three (3) or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
   (B)   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the Village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the Village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to said civil emergency. (1971 Code)
6-2-2-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever a "civil emergency" as defined in the preceding Section exists, the
President shall declare its existence by means of a written declaration setting
forth the facts which constitute the emergency. (1971 Code)
6-2-2-3: GENERAL CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the President, he may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the Village or the
Village as a whole as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of
the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare. (1971 Code)
6-2-2-4: GENERAL ORDERS:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the president may also in the
interest of public safety and welfare make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail alcoholic liquor businesses, including
taverns and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of
intoxicating liquor and beer is permitted.
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
   (F)   Call out the state militia to aid in suppressing riots or the carrying
into effect of any law or ordinance subject to the approval of the governor of
Illinois as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-11-4. (1971 Code)
6-2-2-5: DURATION OF PROCLAMATION:
The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of forty
eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the president
indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The president shall have
the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each
forty eight (48) hour period during the time the said civil emergency exists.
(1971 Code)
6-2-2-6: NOTICE OF PROCLAMATION:
Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the chief of police shall
notify any news media situated within the village, and shall cause three (3)
copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be
posted at the village hall. (1971 Code)
6-2-2-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating the above civil emergency provisions, or the executive
order issued pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of an offense against the
village and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00), upon conviction thereof. (1971 Code)
6-2-2-8: CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in other chapters of this code or any rules or regulations pursuant
thereto, giving powers to the police and fire departments, but shall be
construed together with existing ordinances that are now, or shall be, in
effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the village. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE III.  OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC ORDER
SECTION:
6-2-3-1: Disorderly Conduct; Breach Of Peace
6-2-3-2: Public Intoxication; Breach Of Peace; Incapacitated
6-2-3-3: Vagrancy
6-2-3-4: Disturbing Lawful Assemblies
6-2-3-5: Disturbing Elections Process
6-2-3-6: Assault, Battery And Affray
6-2-3-7: Assault Defined
6-2-3-8: Battery Defined
6-2-3-9: Reckless Conduct
6-2-3-10: Unlawful Assemblies
6-2-3-11: Mob Action
6-2-3-12: Obstructing Stairways Or Exits
6-2-3-13: Resisting Arrest
6-2-3-14: Police And Fire Officers; Interfering And Obeying
6-2-3-15: Unlawful Use Of Weapons
6-2-3-16: Hunting, Firing Or Discharging Weapons
6-2-3-17: Carrying Loaded Weapons
6-2-3-18: Unlawful Display Of Weapon
6-2-3-19: Confiscation And Disposition Of Weapons
6-2-3-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT; BREACH OF PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any violent, tumultuous,
offensive or disorderly conduct; by threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight or fighting; or by using obscene, offensive, profane or
unseemly language to the annoyance, disturbance or vexation of another; or to
be guilty of any conduct calculated to breach the peace. Violation of any
provision of this section shall be punishable by a fine as established in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-3-2: PUBLIC INTOXICATION; BREACH OF PEACE; INCAPACITATED:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any public place to be in such a state
of intoxication that:
   (A)   He is unreasonably loud, obscene or disorderly so as to breach the
peace; or
   (B)   He is incoherent, incapacitated or asleep so as not to be able to
control, direct or protect himself. (1971 Code)
It shall be the duty of police officers to arrest any such person when they
reasonably believe such condition exists. Violation of any provision of this
section shall be punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-3-3: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of "vagrancy" as herein
defined. The following persons shall be deemed vagrants:
   (A)   Burglar's Tools: Any person upon whose possession shall be found any
instrument, tool or other implement for picking locks or pockets, or any
implement that is usually employed or that reasonably may be inferred to have
been designed to be employed in the commission of any felony or misdemeanor or
in the violation of any ordinance, and who shall fail to account satisfactorily
for the possession of the same.
   (B)   Unlawful Occupancy: Any person wandering abroad and occupying, lodging
or sleeping in any vacant or unoccupied barn, garage, shed, shop or other
building or structure, or in any automobile, truck, railroad car or other
vehicle, without owning the same or without permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession of the same, or sleeping in any vacant lot during
the hours of darkness and not giving a satisfactory account for himself.
   (C)   Begging: Any person wandering abroad and begging; or any person who
goes about from door to door of private homes or commercial and business
establishments, or places himself in or upon any public way or public place to
beg or receive alms for himself.
   (D)   Loitering: Any person found loitering or strolling, in, about or upon
any street, alley or other public way or public place, or at any public
gathering or assembly, or in or around any store, shop or business or
commercial establishment or on any private property or place without lawful
business and conducting himself in a lewd, lascivious manner in speech or
behavior. (1971 Code)
   (E)   Violation: Violation of any provision of this section shall be
punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-3-4: DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-5: DISTURBING ELECTIONS PROCESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create any disturbance at an election
poll or to interfere with the election process. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-6: ASSAULT, BATTERY AND AFFRAY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a fight, or to fight, or
to commit any assault or assault and battery anywhere within the village. (1971
Code)
6-2-3-7: ASSAULT DEFINED:
A person commits an "assault" when, without lawful authority, he engages in
conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
(1971 Code)
6-2-3-8: BATTERY DEFINED:
A person commits "battery" if he intentionally or knowingly, without legal
justification and by any means: a) causes bodily harm to an individual, or b)
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(1971 Code)
6-2-3-9: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
A person who causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of an
individual by any means commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the
acts which cause the harm or endangers the safety of an individual, whether
they are lawful or are unlawful. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-10: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more persons to assemble
together for any unlawful purpose or, being assembled, to act in concert to do
an unlawful act against the property of the village or the person or property
of another or against the public peace, or to make any movement or preparation
therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer or permit any
assemblage for the purpose of committing any unlawful act or breach of the
peace or any riotous, offensive or disorderly conduct in or upon premises owned
or occupied by him, or under his control, within the village. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-11: MOB ACTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in "mob action", as defined
as follows:
   (A)   The use of force, violence or other disruptive conduct by two (2) or
more persons acting together, without lawful authority, so as to constitute a
breach of the peace; or
   (B)   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   (C)   The assembly of two (2) or more persons without authority of law to do
violence to the person or property of another. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-12: OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall or any building used by two
(2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with the
free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-13: RESISTING ARREST:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully resist an arrest
which he knows is being made by a police officer, or by a private person
summoned and directed by a police officer to make an arrest, even if he
believes that the arrest is unlawful, and the arrest is in fact unlawful. (1971
Code)
6-2-3-14: POLICE AND FIRE OFFICERS; INTERFERING AND OBEYING:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To knowingly prevent, obstruct, harass or endanger, by any means, any
police officer, fire officer or other official or employee or any military
personnel on emergency duty within the village, in the lawful performance of
his duties.
   (B)   To knowingly or wilfully refuse or neglect to obey, without reasonable
justification therefor, any lawful order or direction of any police officer,
fire officer or other official or employee or any military personnel on
emergency duty within the village. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-15: UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Possess or carry any bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sand club,
sandbag, metal knuckles or any knife, commonly referred to as a switchblade
knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a
button, spring or other device in the handle of the knife; or
      2.   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument
of like character; or
      3.   Carry on or about his person or in any vehicle a tear gas gun
projector or bomb, or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance; or
      4.   Carry concealed in any vehicle or concealed on or about his person,
except when on his land or in his own abode or fixed place of business, any
pistol, revolver or other firearm; or
      5.   Set a spring gun; or
      6.   Possess any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
      7.   Possess or carry any weapon from which more than eight (8) shots or
bullets may be discharged by a single function of the firing device, any
shotgun with a barrel less than eighteen inches (18") in length, or any bomb,
bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing an explosive
substance, such as, but not limited to, black powder bombs and Molotov
cocktails; or
      8.   Carry or possess any firearm or other deadly weapon in any place
which is licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, or at any public gathering held
pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or any public gathering
at which an admission is charged, excluding any place where a showing,
demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded firearms is
conducted within the limits of the village.
   (B)   The presence in any automobile other than a public omnibus of any
weapon, instrument or substance referred to in subsection (A)7 of this section
is prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is being carried
by, all persons occupying such automobile at the time such weapon, instrument
or substance is found, except under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the
person of one of the occupants therein; or
      2.   If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his trade, then such presumption shall not apply to the driver.
   (C)   Subsections (A)3 and (A)4 of this section shall not be construed to
apply to any duly authorized and appointed police officer or agent of this
village or of the state of Illinois, or of the United States, or to any member
of the armed forces or reserve forces of the United States or the Illinois
national guard, while in the performance of their duties. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-16: HUNTING, FIRING OR DISCHARGING WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt with or to fire or discharge any
firearm, air gun, slingshot, bow, crossbow, or other device designed to fire,
project or throw any stone, bullet or other hard substance within the village;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to hunting allowed
pursuant to conditions allowed pursuant to §
10-23-1(A)(7) issued to any citizen in a conservation district. In addition,
this section shall not apply to any police officer discharging a firearm in the
performance of his duty, any police officer discharging a firearm within a duly
designated Shooting Range, nor any citizen from discharging any firearm when
lawfully defending his person or property. (Ord. 889, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord.
1045, 2-22-2021)
6-2-3-17: CARRYING LOADED WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except persons permitted by law, to have
or carry any shotgun or rifle or air gun in or on any vehicle, unless such
shotgun or rifle or air gun is dismantled to render it incapable of being fired
or is unloaded when enclosed in a case; the mere removal of the bolt from a
bolt action rifle shall not be construed as dismantled so as to render it
incapable of firing. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-18: UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF WEAPON:
It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of any weapon or device set
forth in this chapter to display or flourish any such weapon in a threatening
or boisterous manner such as might alarm a reasonable man. (1971 Code)
6-2-3-19: CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS:
   (A)   Upon conviction of a violation of sections
6-2-3-15 through
6-2-3-18 of this chapter, any weapons seized shall be confiscated by the trial
court.
   (B)   Any stolen weapon so confiscated when no longer needed for evidentiary
purposes shall be returned to the person entitled to possession if known. All
other confiscated weapons when no longer needed for evidentiary purposes shall,
in the discretion of the trial court, be destroyed or preserved as the property
of the village. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE IV.  OFFENSES INVOLVING HEALTH, SAFETY AND CHILDREN
SECTION:
6-2-4-1: Dangerous Fires
6-2-4-2: Bonfires
6-2-4-3: Nuisances; Creating, Maintaining
6-2-4-4: Loud, Disturbing And Unnecessary Noises
6-2-4-5: Stench Bombs; Nauseous Gases And Substances
6-2-4-6: Fireworks
6-2-4-7: Throwing Missiles Or Bottles
6-2-4-8: Articles In Windows
6-2-4-9: Curfew For Children
6-2-4-10: Sale Of Alcoholic Liquors To Minors Prohibited
6-2-4-11: Possession Of Alcoholic Liquor By Minor Prohibited
6-2-4-12: Consumption Of Alcoholic Liquor By Minors Prohibited
6-2-4-13: Exception To Sections 6-2-4-11 And 6-2-4-12
6-2-4-14: Use Of Forged Identification Card To Obtain Liquor Prohibited
6-2-4-15: Sale Of Firearms Or Weapons To Minors Prohibited
6-2-4-16: Sniffing Or Inhaling Of Intoxicants Prohibited
6-2-4-17: Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages On Public Property And In Parks
Prohibited
6-2-4-18: Possession Of Cannabis Prohibited
6-2-4-19: Drug Paraphernalia
6-2-4-20: Synthetic Alternative Drugs
6-2-4-1: DANGEROUS FIRES 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to start by any means, or to permit another
to start, any fire which endangers or damages the health, person or property of
another. Violation of any provision of this section shall be punishable by a
fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/20-1 et seq.
6-2-4-2: BONFIRES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any
building or other structure as to endanger such building or structure or upon
any asphalt street or sidewalk pavement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to burn papers, excelsior or other material
within the village which may be blown about by the wind, unless the same is
burned in a stove, fireplace or furnace, or an incinerator with a trap
sufficiently fine to prevent the escape of fly ash or ignited particles.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to burn grass or leaves at any time except
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
(1971 Code)
   (D)   Violation of any provision of this section shall be punishable by a
fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-4-3: NUISANCES; CREATING, MAINTAINING:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain anywhere
within the village any "nuisance" as declared or defined in chapter 3 of this
title, or to permit or direct another to do the same.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this section shall be punishable by a
fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 956, 8-12-2013)
6-2-4-4: LOUD, DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISES:
The creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise within
the limits of the village is prohibited.
The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises
in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Blowing Horns: The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle or bus so as to create any unreasonably loud or harsh
sound; and the sounding of such device for unnecessary and unreasonable period
of time.
   (B)   Radios, Phonographs, Etc.: The playing of any radio, phonograph or
musical instrument with such volume as to unreasonably annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, hospital, dwelling, hotel or
other such building.
   (C)   Yelling, Shouting, Hooting, Etc.: Yelling, shouting, whistling or
singing so as to unreasonably annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
any person in the vicinity.
   (D)   Pets: The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which by causing
frequent or long continued noises, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity.
   (E)   Blowing Whistles: The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, other than to give notice of the time to begin or stop work
or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper village
authorities.
   (F)   Exhaust Discharge: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or
motorboat engine, except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
   (G)   Building Operations: The erection (including excavation), demolition,
alteration or repairs of any building or the excavation of streets or public
places in any residential area, other than between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday, except in case
of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety and then only
with a written permit from a city official.
   (H)   Noises Near Schools, Hospitals, Churches, Etc.: The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while the same are in session, or adjacent to any hospital
which unreasonably interferes with the workings or sessions thereof.
   (I)   Noises To Attract Attention: The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other
instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of
noise to any performance, show or sale or display of merchandise.
   (J)   Loudspeakers Or Amplifiers: The unreasonable use of any amplifiers or
loudspeakers in the course of any public address. (Ord. 353, 8-10-1981)
   (K)   Violation: Violation of any provision of this section shall be
punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-4-5: STENCH BOMBS; NAUSEOUS GASES AND SUBSTANCES:
   (A)   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop,
pour, deposit or discharge upon the person or the property of another, any
liquid, gaseous or solid substance which is injurious to person or property or
which is nauseous, sickening, irritating or offensive to any of the senses,
with the intent to unlawfully injure, molest, discomfort or discommode another
in the use, management, conduct or control of his personal property. No person
shall attempt, or aid in the attempt or commission of, any act prohibited
herein.
   (B)   Accepted Uses: The prohibitions of subsection (A) of this section
shall not apply to police officers acting in line of duty or to proprietors of
business premises or to their employees using such substances for the
protection of such business premises when the substances referred to herein are
kept solely for the purposes of repelling robbers, thieves, burglars or other
such persons violating the law. (1971 Code)
6-2-4-6: FIREWORKS:
   (A)   Definition: As used in this section, the term "fireworks" shall be
defined as follows: Any explosive composition, or any substance or combination
of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a viable or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration or detonation, and shall include toy cannons, in which explosives
are used, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs, or other
fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any explosive
compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance, or
containing combustible substances producing visual effects; provided, however,
that the term "fireworks" shall not include snake or glowworm pellets; smoke
devices; trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "boobytraps", "snappers",
"trick matches", "cigarette loads" and "auto burglar alarms"; sparklers; toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of explosive compound
are used, providing they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in
contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or
plastic caps which contain less than twenty hundredths (0.20) grain of
explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
   (B)   Permits:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person
to knowingly possess, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use
or explode any fireworks. Every such display shall be handled by a competent
individual and shall be of such a character and so located, discharged or fired
as not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons.
Application for permits shall be made in writing at least fifteen (15) days in
advance of the date of the sale, use or display and action shall be taken on
such application within forty eight (48) hours after such application is made.
After such privilege shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and
distribution of fireworks shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit
granted hereunder shall be transferable. No permit shall be required, under the
provisions of this section, for supervised public displays by state, county,
village or fair associations.
      2.   A bond is required from the licensee in a sum not less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) conditioned on compliance with the provisions of
this section and the regulations of the state fire marshal.
      3.   A permit shall be issued only after payment of the permit fee and
inspection of the sale or display site by the village police chief, or his
designee, to determine that such site shall not be hazardous to property or
endanger any person or persons. Forms for such application, bond and permit may
be obtained from the office of the village clerk.
      4.   The fee for a permit issued pursuant to this section is two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00).
      5.   The term for any permit issued pursuant to this section shall be
from June 15 to July 15 of the given year.
      6.   The application for permit shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Exact location of proposed sale or display;
         (b)   Exact location of where the fireworks are to be stored prior to
sale or display;
         (c)   The name and address of the dealer from whom the fireworks shall
be purchased;
         (d)   The quantity and type of fireworks to be sold or displayed
(gross weight or by type and number);
         (e)   The method by which the fireworks will be transported to the
sale or to the display site;
         (f)   The name, address and telephone number of the person(s)
responsible for the sale or display;
         (g)   The name, address and telephone number of the official monitor
of the display;
         (h)   Whether the person in actual charge of the display is able
bodied, over twenty one (21) years of age, and capable of reading, writing and
understanding the English language;
         (i)   A statement that the applicant has received all necessary
federal permits;
         (j)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and ages of the display
installation and ignition personnel;
         (k)   A statement whether police and fire personnel and equipment and
a first aid station, will be on hand at each display in the event of an
accident.
   (C)   Searches And Seizures; Forfeiture; Destruction: Whenever any village
officer or a member of the board of trustees has reason to believe that any
violation of this section has occurred within the jurisdiction within such
official is authorized to act and that the person so violating this section has
in his possession fireworks or combustibles, such official may file a complaint
in writing, verified by affidavit, with any circuit court within whose
jurisdiction the premises to be searched are situated, stating the facts upon
which such belief is founded, the premises to be searched, and the property to
be seized, and procure a search warrant and execute the same. Upon the
execution of such search warrant, the person executing the same shall make due
return thereof to the court issuing the same, together with an inventory of the
property taken thereunder. The court shall thereupon issue process against the
owner of such property if he be known, otherwise against the party in whose
possession the property so taken was found, if known. In case of inability to
serve such process upon the owner or the person in possession of the property
at the time of its seizure, as hereinbefore provided, notice of the proceedings
before the court shall be given as required by the statutes of the state
governing cases of attachment. Upon the return of the process duly served or
upon the posting or publishing of notice made, as hereinabove provided, the
court shall proceed to determine whether or not such property so seized was
held or possessed in violation of this section. In case of a finding that the
fireworks or combustibles seized were possessed in violation of this section,
judgment shall be entered confiscating and forfeiting the property and ordering
its destruction. (Ord. 746, 5-27-2003)
   (D)   Violations: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 746, 5-27-2003; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-4-7: THROWING MISSILES OR BOTTLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or recklessly to cast, throw,
drop or break any stone, rock, brick, glass bottle or other missile or
substance from any overpass or onto any street, alley or other public way or
in, at or against any person, residence, building, car or other property. (1971
Code)
6-2-4-8: ARTICLES IN WINDOWS:
It shall be unlawful to place any movable article on window ledges abutting a
public street, alley or sidewalk, in such a manner that the same can be or is
in danger of falling onto such street, alley or sidewalk. (1971 Code)
6-2-4-9: CURFEW FOR CHILDREN:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place,
street or highway at the following times unless accompanied and supervised by a
parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at least twenty one (21)
years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a
business or occupation which the laws of this state authorize a person of less
than eighteen (18) years of age to perform:
      1.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following days;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit a person in
his custody or control to violate subsection (A) of this section. (1971 Code)
   (C)   A person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-4-10: SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to
another person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service. (1971 Code)
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-4-11: POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this chapter to purchase or accept a gift
of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his possession. (1971 Code)
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
   (C)   The presence in a vehicle other than a public omnibus of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is
being carried by, all persons occupying such vehicle at the time at which such
alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants
therein; or
      2.   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over twenty one (21)
years of age. (1971 Code)
6-2-4-12: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age
to consume alcoholic liquor. (1971 Code)
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-4-13: EXCEPTION TO SECTIONS 6-2-4-11 AND 6-2-4-12:
Nothing in sections
6-2-4-11 and 6-2-4-12 of this article shall be deemed to prohibit the
possession, dispensing or consumption of a minor of alcoholic liquor in the
performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a minor
under the direct supervision and approval of the parent or parents or legal
guardian of such minor in the privacy of a home. (1971 Code)
6-2-4-14: USE OF FORGED IDENTIFICATION CARD TO OBTAIN LIQUOR PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display an identification card
that:
      1.   Is altered or defaced in any manner, or
      2.   Is false or forged, or
      3.   Is the identification card of another, or
      4.   Was obtained by means of false information
to induce another to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to the bearer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, an "identification card" is defined
as any document issued by a public officer in the performance of his official
duties which on its face purports to identify the name and age of the bearer.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (1971 Code)
6-2-4-15: SALE OF FIREARMS OR WEAPONS TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell to any minor person any
firearm, bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sand club, sandbag, metal knuckles,
dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, stiletto or any knife commonly referred
to as a switchblade, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, lend, rent, give or
otherwise transfer any "air rifle" to a person under thirteen (13) years of age
except where the relationship of parent-child, guardian-ward, or adult
instructor-pupil exists between such person and the person under thirteen (13)
years of age.
   (C)   It shall be an affirmative defense for any person having sold such
weapon that:
      1.   The minor procured the sale by use of false or forged identification
cards; and
      2.   He did not know, and could not reasonably have known, of the falsity
or forgery; and
      3.   He exercised reasonable diligence to determine the veracity of the
representation.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (1971 Code)
6-2-4-16: SNIFFING OR INHALING OF INTOXICANTS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sniff, inhale or breathe the
vapors of any glue, kerosene, gasoline, cleaning fluid or other substance not
manufactured or produced for such human consumption for the purpose of becoming
intoxicated.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to command, encourage, request,
aid or abet any other person to violate the provisions of subsection (A) of
this section.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00); a second or subsequent violation of this section by the same person
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1971 Code)
6-2-4-17: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND IN PARKS
PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages on public
property and in parks within the corporate limits of the Village; unless said
consumption has been specifically approved and authorized by the Village Board.
(Ord. 268, 8-1975)
6-2-4-18: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Definition: As used in this section, "cannabis" includes marijuana,
hashish, and other substances which are identified as including any parts of
the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin
extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin,
including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives,
including its naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients,
whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by
means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical
synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber
produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or
the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   (B)   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to possess
cannabis, unless said possession is authorized by the Statutes of the State of
Illinois.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person convicted of possessing less than ten grams (10 g)
of cannabis shall be punished by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person convicted of possessing at least ten grams (10
g) but less than thirty grams (30 g) of cannabis shall be punished by a fine of
not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Any person convicted of possessing thirty grams (30 g) or
more of cannabis shall be punished by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 984, 2-23-2015)
6-2-4-19: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   (A)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
     CANNABIS: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 3 of the
"Cannabis Control Act", as if that definition were incorporated herein.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 102
of the "Illinois Controlled Substances Act", as if that definition were
incorporated herein.
   DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are peculiar to and/or used in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body
cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the "Cannabis Control Act",
or the "Illinois Controlled Substances Act". It includes, but is not limited
to:
Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and/or used for cutting cannabis or a
controlled substance by private persons.
Isomerization devices peculiar to and/or used in increasing the potency of any
species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled substance.
Kits peculiar to and/or used in manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled substance.
Objects peculiar to and/or used for ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body,
including, but not limited to, the following items:
Air driven pipes.
Bongs.
Carburation tubes and devices.
Carburetor pipes.
Chillums.
Dug-out.
Electric pipes.
Ice pipes or chillers.
Metal bats-pipes.
Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials.
Screens.
Smoking and carburation masks.
Snuff dispensers.
Water pipes.
Any item whose purpose or use is in violation of this section.
Testing equipment peculiar to and/or used for private home use in identifying
or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis or controlled
substances.
   (B)   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia:
      1.   A person who possesses an item of drug paraphernalia, unless
authorized by the Statutes of the State of Illinois, is guilty of an ordinance
violation for which the court shall impose a fine of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   In determining whether an item is drug paraphernalia, the trier of
fact may take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled
substance to drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled
substance on the drug paraphernalia and any other mitigating factors. (Ord.
985, 2-23-2015)
6-2-4-20: SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS:
   (A)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
    A PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein including, but not limited to, the examples of brand names
or identifiers listed on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein
and incorporated herein.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers,
esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor
agonist, including, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein.
   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of
any Federally controlled schedule I substance including, but not limited to,
any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters,
ethers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, including,
but not limited to, the examples of brand names or identifiers listed on
exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein.
   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any Federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, including, but not limited to,
the examples of brand names or identifiers listed on exhibit A attached to the
ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein.
   (B)   Sale Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale or deliver any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, a synthetic
stimulant or a synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   (C)   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a
product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, a synthetic stimulant or a
synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   (D)   Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of
a synthetic cannabinoid, a synthetic stimulant or a synthetic psychedelic/
hallucinogen.
   (E)   Penalties:
      1.   A person found to be in violation of this section is guilty of an
ordinance violation for which the court shall impose a fine of not less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
      2.   Each violation of this section, or every day a violation continues
to exist, shall constitute a new and separate violation. (Ord. 936, 4-23-2012)
ARTICLE V.  OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-2-5-1: Criminal Housing Management
6-2-5-2: Trespass To Land And Buildings
6-2-5-3: Malicious Mischief Or Destruction
6-2-5-4: Coin Operated Devices; Slugs, Tampering
6-2-5-5: Criminal Damage To Property
6-2-5-1: CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT:
A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as legal or
equitable owner, or as a managing agent or otherwise, he knowingly permits by
his gross carelessness or neglect the physical condition or facilities of the
residential real estate to become or remain so deteriorated that the health or
safety of any person is endangered. (1971 Code)
6-2-5-2: TRESPASS TO LAND AND BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Trespasses Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to commit a trespass within this Municipality upon either public or
private property.
   (B)   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses; Suppression: Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of subsection (A) of this section, any of
the following acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included
among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of said
subsection (A) of this section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder
at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or
violations of this chapter, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as
follows:
      1.   To enter upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest, given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   To pursue a course of conduct or action incidental to the making of
an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or exhibited
at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry, or
in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by
any owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   To fail or refuse to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
      4.   To enter into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1971 Code)
   (C)   Violation: Violation of any provision of this section shall be
punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-5-3: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF OR DESTRUCTION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously tear
up, injure, deface or destroy any property, real or personal, belonging to the
Village; or any property, used in any business impressed with a public interest
and usually designated as a public service corporation i.e., waterworks, gas,
electric light, telephone, street, railroad or steam heating companies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously
interfere or meddle in any way with the operation of any such business, as
above enumerated. (1971 Code)
6-2-5-4: COIN OPERATED DEVICES; SLUGS, TAMPERING 1 :
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to insert, or attempt to insert,
in any parking meter, vending machine or other coin operated device, any slug,
counterfeit coin or other foreign or metallic substance not a coin of United
States currency.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously
injure, deface, destroy or otherwise tamper with any parking meter, vending
machine or other coin operated device. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-3-1 of this code.
6-2-5-5: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts within
the village:
   (A)   Knowingly damage any property of another without his consent; or
   (B)   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damage property of another;
or
   (C)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his consent; or
   (D)   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another without
his consent any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound thereby intending
to interfere with use by another of the land or building. (Ord. 375, 7-12-1982)
ARTICLE VI.  OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALITY
SECTION:
6-2-6-1: Prostitution Defined; Penalty
6-2-6-2: Keeping A Place Of Prostitution; Penalty
6-2-6-3: Patronizing A Prostitute; Penalty
6-2-6-4: Soliciting For A Prostitute; Penalty
6-2-6-5: Pandering; Penalty
6-2-6-6: Pimping; Penalty
6-2-6-7: Public Indecency; Acts Or Language Prohibited
6-2-6-8: Obscenity Defined; Prohibited
6-2-6-9: Obscene Marking In Public View Prohibited
6-2-6-10: Obscenity; Affirmative Defense
6-2-6-11: Window Peeping Prohibited
6-2-6-12: Gambling Prohibited; Penalty
6-2-6-1: PROSTITUTION DEFINED; PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who performs or offers or agrees to perform any of the
following acts for money commits an act of prostitution:
      1.   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
      2.   Any act of deviate sexual conduct, meaning any act of sexual
gratification involving the sex organs of one person and the mouth or anus of
another.
   (B)   Any person convicted of prostitution shall be fined not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1971
Code)
6-2-6-2: KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION; PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who keeps, maintains or exercises control over the use of
any premises which could offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of
prostitution, and who performs any of the following acts, shall be deemed to
keep a place of prostitution:
      1.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such premises for the purpose
of prostitution; or
      2.   Grants or permits the use of such premises under circumstances from
which he should reasonably be aware that such premises are used or about to be
used for purposes of prostitution; or
      3.   Permits the continued use of premises after becoming aware of facts
or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that such premises are
being used for purposes of prostitution.
   (B)   Any person convicted of keeping a place of prostitution shall be fined
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (1971 Code)
6-2-6-3: PATRONIZING A PROSTITUTE; PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who performs any of the following acts with a person not
his spouse commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
      1.   Engages in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct
with a prostitute; or
      2.   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution in the company of a
prostitute with the intent to engage in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate
sexual conduct.
   (B)   Any person convicted of patronizing a prostitute shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00). (1971 Code)
6-2-6-4: SOLICITING FOR A PROSTITUTE; PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who performs any of the following acts commits soliciting
for a prostitute:
      1.   Solicits another person for the purpose of prostitution; or
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose
of prostitution; or
      3.   Directs another person to a place knowing such direction is for the
purpose of prostitution.
   (B)   Any person convicted of soliciting for a prostitute shall be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (1971 Code)
6-2-6-5: PANDERING; PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who performs any of the following acts for money commits
pandering:
      1.   Compels a female to become a prostitute; or
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a female may
commit prostitution.
   (B)   Any person convicted of pandering by compulsion shall be fined not
less than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1971 Code)
6-2-6-6: PIMPING; PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who receives money or other property from a prostitute, not
for a lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or in part from an
act of prostitution commits pimping.
   (B)   Any person convicted of pimping shall be fined not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (1971 Code)
6-2-6-7: PUBLIC INDECENCY; ACTS OR LANGUAGE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent, lewd or
lascivious act in any public place in the village, or to utter any lewd or
offensive words or to use any threatening or abusive language publicly and
within the hearing of another person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a public place in a
state of nudity, or to make any indecent exposure of his person or to be guilty
of any other lewd or indecent act or behavior.
   (C)   "Public place", for purposes of this section, means any place where
such conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1971 Code)
   (D)   Violation of any provision of this section shall be punishable by a
fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-2-6-8: OBSCENITY DEFINED; PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, sell, print,
offer to sell, give away, circulate, publish, distribute or attempt to
distribute any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing, card,
advertisement, circular, print, picture, holograph, motion picture film, play,
image, instrument, statue, drawing or other article which is obscene.
   (B)   "Obscene" for the purpose of this section, is defined as follows:
whether to a reasonable person applying contemporary community standards, the
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interests,
and is without redeeming social value. (1971 Code)
6-2-6-9: OBSCENE MARKING IN PUBLIC VIEW PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to write, mark, draw, cut or make any
profane or indecent word, sentence, design or figure in any place open to
public view. (1971 Code)
6-2-6-10: OBSCENITY; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
It shall be an affirmative defense to charge under sections
6-2-6-8 and 6-2-6-9 of this chapter that the dissemination:
   (A)   Was not for sale or gain, and was made only to personal associates
other than children under eighteen (18) years of age; or
   (B)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other special
education purpose for possession of such material. (1971 Code)
6-2-6-11: WINDOW PEEPING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer, peep into or be found
loitering about and within view of any window within a building occupied as a
residence of another, with the intent of watching or observing the activities
of persons therein. (1971 Code)
6-2-6-12: GAMBLING PROHIBITED; PENALTY:
   (A)   Unlawful To Gamble: Except as permitted by title 3, chapters 20 and 22
of this code, it shall be unlawful for any person to gamble within the village,
provided nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prohibit an activity
lawful under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Unlawful To Permit Gambling: Except as permitted by title 3, chapters
20 and 22 of this code, pertaining to raffles and video gaming, it shall be
unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any premises owned, occupied or
controlled by him to be used as a gambling place within the village.
   (C)   Gambling Described: For the purposes of this section:
      1.   "Gambling" occurs when any person:
         (a)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other things of
value; or
         (b)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any
political nomination, appointment or election; or
         (c)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of any gambling device; or
         (d)   Knowingly owns or possesses any books, instruments or apparatus
by means of which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered; or
         (e)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
         (f)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or
offers or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
         (g)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket or other similar device; or
         (h)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game or drafts,
prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share or any policy ticket or similar
device or any advertisement of any lottery or policy game; or
         (i)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
chances in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs equipment for the transmission or receipt of such
information; except that nothing in this subsection (C)1(i) shall prohibit
transmission or receipt of such information for the use of news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
      2.   "Gambling place" means any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other
property whatsoever used for the purpose of gambling.
      3.   "Gambling device" means any clock, tape machine, slot machine or
other machines or devices for the reception of money or other things of value
on chance or skill or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is
staked, hazarded, bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture,
equipment or other device designed primarily for use in a gambling place.
However, a gambling device does not include:
         (a)   A coin operated mechanical device played for amusement which
awards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which device
is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operations thereof
depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the player
thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property, and which is
commonly known as a pinball machine; or
         (b)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for
the money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
      4.   "Lottery" means any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes
are distributed by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration
for a chance to win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a
lottery, raffle, gift or sale or some other name.
      5.   "Policy game" means any scheme or procedure whereby a person
promises or guarantees by an instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or
other device that any particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall
in the event of any contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the
purchaser or holder to receive money, property or evidence of debt.
   (D)   Food And Liquor Licenses: Whenever any premises are determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be a gambling place, all village licenses or
permits issued authorizing the serving of food or alcoholic liquor on such
premises shall become void; and no license or permit so voided shall be
reissued for such premises for a period of sixty (60) days thereafter; nor
shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling place be reissued any such
license or permit for one year from date of his conviction and after a second
conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be reissued
any such license or permit.
   (E)   Seizure Of Gambling Devices And Gambling Funds: Every gambling device
which is incapable of lawful use constitutes contraband and shall be subject to
seizure and confiscation by village police officers. Any money or other thing
of value intrinsically related to acts of gambling shall be seized and
forfeited as contraband to the village. Disposition of such gambling devices
seized or confiscated shall be made according to law.
   (F)   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first offense and not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a subsequent
offense; in addition to any other penalty herein provided. (Ord. 972, 6-23-
2014)
ARTICLE VII.  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-7-1: Violation Of Civil Rights; Elements
6-2-7-2: Violation Of Civil Rights; Sanctions
6-2-7-3: Necessity As Affirmative Defense
6-2-7-4: Bribery; Offering Or Accepting
6-2-7-5: Solicitation To Commit Offense
6-2-7-6: Conspiracy To Commit Offense
6-2-7-7: Solicitation And Conspiracy; Affirmative Defense
6-2-7-8: Public Solicitation Of Funds; Registration Required
6-2-7-9: Telephone Solicitation Or Promotion; Registration Required
6-2-7-10: Telephones; Obscene, Anonymous, Misrepresented Calls
6-2-7-11: False Alarms; Police, Fire, Ambulance
6-2-7-12: Climbing Utility Poles
6-2-7-13: Intimidation Defined; Prohibited
6-2-7-14: Obstruction Of Access To Property And Mailboxes
6-2-7-15: Obstruction Of Waterways; Operation Of Vehicles Within Waterways
6-2-7-16: Obstruction Of Justice
6-2-7-1: VIOLATION OF CIVIL RIGHTS; ELEMENTS:
A person commits a violation of civil rights when:
   (A)   He prevents, interferes with or denies to another, or conspires to do
the same, the full and equal access to and enjoyment of the facilities and
services of any office, place, business, accommodation, amusement or conveyance
because of race, religion, color or national ancestry; or
   (B)   As an official, he refuses to employ, discriminates in employment, or
participates in a scheme which discriminates in employment for any work, job,
office or project because of race, religion, color or national ancestry; or
   (C)   As an official, he denies or refuses to any person the full and equal
access, use or enjoyment of the services, facilities, accommodations,
advantages or privileges of his office, or of any property accommodations or
facilities under his care, because of race, religion, color or national
ancestry. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-2: VIOLATION OF CIVIL RIGHTS; SANCTIONS:
   (A)   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of civil rights may be
fined not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Enjoining As A Public Nuisance: Any violation of civil rights
occurring in any public office, accommodation or amusement is declared to be a
public nuisance and may be abated in any manner provided by this Code for the
abatement of public nuisances.
   (C)   Discharge Of Public Officials: Whenever any public official shall be
found guilty of a violation of civil rights, the person aggrieved, or the
Village Attorney on his behalf, may file a petition in the circuit court to
discharge such official from office. The court shall order that such official
be immediately relieved of his office or duties and shall order such official
to resign or be removed or discharged. Any person violating or refusing to
enforce any such court order or decree shall be deemed in contempt of court.
   (D)   Nonexclusivity: The penalties and remedies herein provided by this
Section shall not be deemed mutually exclusive. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-3: NECESSITY AS AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
Conduct which would otherwise be an offense under this Chapter is justifiable
by reason of necessity if the accused was without blame in occasioning or
developing the situation, and he reasonably believed such conduct was necessary
to avoid a public or private injury greater than the injury which might
reasonably result from his own conduct. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-4: BRIBERY; OFFERING OR ACCEPTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To offer, promise or give to any official, police officer or employee
of the Village any money, reward, service, privilege or thing of value which he
may not otherwise lawfully accept, with intent to influence the performance or
nonperformance of any official act, function, duty or employment.
   (B)   To agree to accept, receive or retain any money, reward, service,
privilege or thing of value which he may not otherwise lawfully accept, knowing
or with reason to know that such benefit was offered, promised or given with
intent to influence him in the performance or nonperformance of any official
act, function, duty or employment. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-5: SOLICITATION TO COMMIT OFFENSE:
A person commits solicitation when, with intent that an offense be committed,
he commands, encourages or requests another person to commit that offense.
(1971 Code)
6-2-7-6: CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT OFFENSE:
A person commits conspiracy when, with intent that an offense be committed, he
agrees with another person to the commission of that offense. No person may be
convicted of conspiracy to commit an offense unless an act in furtherance of
such agreement is alleged and proved to have been committed by him or by a
coconspirator. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-7: SOLICITATION AND CONSPIRACY; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
It shall be a defense to a charge of solicitation or conspiracy that if the
criminal objects were achieved the accused would not be guilty of the offense.
(1971 Code)
6-2-7-8: PUBLIC SOLICITATION OF FUNDS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit any money, services,
subscriptions or other valuable thing for any religious, charitable or
philanthropic cause without having first obtained a certificate of registration
from the Village Clerk, which certificate shall identify the cause, its
officers, soliciting agents within the Village and the duration of such
solicitation.
   (B)   Application for such certificate of registration shall be made to the
Clerk, setting forth the information required in subsection (A) of this
Section, accompanied by an affidavit sworn to by the applicant as to the
veracity of such information.
   (C)   No such certificate shall be issued by the Clerk without the express
consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Such certificate of registration or a certified copy thereof, shall be
displayed by any person soliciting under authority thereof upon demand of any
police officer or any person so solicited. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-9: TELEPHONE SOLICITATION OR PROMOTION; REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in his own name, or in the name of
or for the benefit of any other person to conduct any sales campaign or sales
promotion of any nature whatsoever through the use of the telephone, without
having first obtained a certificate of registration from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Application for such registration shall be made to the Clerk, setting
forth the name of the applicant, his employer or organization, the article or
goods proposed to be sold, terms of sale, length of time such campaign or
promotion is sought to be continued, and names and addresses of all persons
assisting in such campaign or promotion within the Village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or make any
solicitation by telephone for any pecuniary compensation or other profit on
behalf of any actual or purported charitable use, purpose, association,
corporation or institution. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-10: TELEPHONES; OBSCENE, ANONYMOUS, MISREPRESENTED CALLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or permit another to make, any
obscene, anonymous or falsely represented telephone calls to another person for
the purpose or reason of nuisance or harassment. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-11: FALSE ALARMS; POLICE, FIRE, AMBULANCE:
It shall be unlawful to intentionally make, turn in or give any false alarm of
fire or of need of police or ambulance assistance, or to aid or abet in the
commission of such act. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-12: CLIMBING UTILITY POLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon any telegraph pole, telephone
pole, electric light pole or sign pole unless in the performance of his duties.
(1971 Code)
6-2-7-13: INTIMIDATION DEFINED; PROHIBITED:
A person commits intimidation when, with intent to cause another person to
perform or to omit the performance of any act, he communicates to another
without otherwise lawful authority a threat to perform any of the following
acts:
   (A)   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or
property; or
   (B)   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint; or
   (C)   Commit any criminal offense; or
   (D)   Accuse any person of an offense; or
   (E)   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule; or
   (F)   Take action as a public official against anyone or anything, or
withhold official action, or cause such action or withholding; or
   (G)   Bring about or continue any strike, boycott or other collective or mob
action. (1971 Code)
6-2-7-14: OBSTRUCTION OF ACCESS TO PROPERTY AND MAILBOXES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, without otherwise lawful authority, to
commit or perform any of the following acts:
   (A)   Block, obstruct or hinder access to any driveway, sidewalk, gate or
other means of ingress and egress to property owned or controlled by another
person without the consent of such other person.
   (B)   Obstruct or hinder the delivery of mail to or the retrieval of mail
from any mailbox owned or controlled by another person without the consent of
such other person. (Ord. 349, 7-13-1981)
6-2-7-15: OBSTRUCTION OF WATERWAYS; OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITHIN WATERWAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, without otherwise lawful authority, to
perform any of the following acts:
   (A)   Deposit dirt, trash, brush, branches, rubbish or any other solid
material or debris of any nature whatsoever within any ditch, stream, waterway,
or watercourse which carries or is intended or designed to carry or contain the
flow of surface water.
   (B)   Operate or use any car, truck, tractor, motorcycle, motorbike or any
other motorized vehicle of any nature whatsoever in or upon any ditch, stream,
waterway or watercourse and any immediately adjoining slope, banks or levees.
(Ord. 351, 7-13-1981)
6-2-7-16: OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE:
A person obstructs justice when, with intent to prevent the apprehension or
obstruct the prosecution of any person, or with the intent to cause the
apprehension, questioning or prosecution of any person, when such action is
taken for the sole purpose to harass any person, or when a person knowingly
commits any of the following acts:
   (A)   Destroys, alters, conceals or disguises physical evidence, plants
false evidence, furnishes false information; or
   (B)   Induces a witness having knowledge material to the subject at issue to
leave the state or conceal himself; or
   (C)   Possessing knowledge material to the subject at issue, he leaves the
state or conceals himself; or
   (D)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to any peace
officer, public officer, or public employee, a report to the effect that an
offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been committed, knowing
at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for
believing that such an offense will be committed, is being committed or has
been committed. (Ord. 804, 10-9-2006)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
ARTICLE I.  IN GENERAL
SECTION:
6-3-1-1: Nuisances Declared Unlawful
6-3-1-2: Penalty
6-3-1-3: Nuisance Defined, Generally
6-3-1-4: Nuisances Not Enumerated Herein
6-3-1-5: Enumeration Not Exclusive
6-3-1-6: Duty Of Village Officers To Investigate; Power Of Entry
6-3-1-7: Notice To Proper Officials
6-3-1-1: NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to wilfully
or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere
within the Village. (1971 Code)
6-3-1-2: PENALTY:
Whenever in this chapter any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or a nuisance, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared unlawful, when no specific penalty is
provided therefor, any person violating such provision shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 752, 7-14-2003)
6-3-1-3: NUISANCE DEFINED, GENERALLY:
Any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall exist or continue
for such a length of time as to:
   (A)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public; or
   (B)   In any way render the public insecure in life or property; or
   (C)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   (D)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
public way or place;
is hereby declared a nuisance. (1971 Code)
6-3-1-4: NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED HEREIN:
Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter or other provisions of this Code
or ordinances of the Village shall be enforceable under the provisions of this
chapter as if enumerated specifically herein. (1971 Code)
6-3-1-5: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but are in
addition to and to be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in statutes or other provisions of this code or ordinances of the
village. (1971 Code)
6-3-1-6: DUTY OF VILLAGE OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE; POWER OF ENTRY:
   (A)   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of
police, fire, health and building officers and inspectors to investigate,
confirm and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   (B)   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, said officers
and inspectors shall, upon proper identification, be permitted, at any
reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any
premises or property within the village to make an examination thereof, if they
shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists. (1971 Code)
6-3-1-7: NOTICE TO PROPER OFFICIALS:
Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the police, fire, health or building officers or inspectors, notice shall be
given to the owner or person in control of the property or premises involved,
and to the appropriate village officials whose functions include the abatement
of such nuisances. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE II.  CERTAIN NUISANCES DECLARED
SECTION:
6-3-2-1: Foul Odors, Filth
6-3-2-2: Rubbish, Dry Grass
6-3-2-3: Weeds
6-3-2-4: Petroleum Products, Explosives
6-3-2-5: Unsafe Buildings
6-3-2-6: Abandoned Refrigerators
6-3-2-7: Inoperable Motor Vehicles
6-3-2-8: Dust, Cinders
6-3-2-9: Scaffolding, Ladders
6-3-2-10: Unauthorized Storage Facilities
6-3-2-11: Garage Sales
6-3-2-1: FOUL ODORS, FILTH:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort of the village and its residents for any person:
   (A)   Businesses: To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to
create an offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous
to persons in the vicinity; or
   (B)   Animals: To keep or maintain any animals in an unclean or filthy
manner or surroundings, or to keep or maintain any animals from which emit any
particularly foul or offensive odors; or
   (C)   Animal Carcasses: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any animal carcass or any offal, filth, excretion or
other noisome or noxious animal matter of any kind which is, or is likely to
become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   (D)   Vegetable Matter: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is,
or is likely to be putrid, foul or offensive; or
   (E)   Cellars, Vaults, Privies: To cause or permit any cellar, vault,
cistern, drain, privy, yard or other premises whatsoever to become, from any
cause, foul or offensive or injurious to the public health; or
   (F)   Stagnant Water: To permit to be collected or to stand upon any
premises any foul or stagnant water of any kind; or
   (G)   Stables And Pigsties: To locate or maintain, or permit to exist or
remain, anywhere within the village any stable or pigsty; or
   (H)   Foul Or Noxious Substances: To use, deposit or keep any property,
substance or thing emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous
or noxious odor, effluvia or stench particularly repulsive to the physical
senses and which annoys, discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety
of any person. (1971 Code)
6-3-2-2: RUBBISH, DRY GRASS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Rubbish, Rags: The deposit or accumulation of any refuse, oily rags,
rubbish or other materials or substances of any kind, so as to constitute a
fire hazard; or
   (B)   Dry Grass, Vegetation: The deposit, accumulation, existence or growth
upon any property of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other like
substances of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard. (1971 Code)
6-3-2-3: WEEDS:
   (A)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a
nuisance for any person to cause or permit:
      1.   Jimson, Burdock, Etc.: Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed,
thistle, cocklebur, or other weeds of a like kind, to grow in any lot or tract
of land in the village.
      2.   Height: Any weeds, grass or plants other than trees, bushes,
flowers, vegetables or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding
eight inches (8") anywhere in the village.
      3.   Barberry Bushes: Growth of the bush of the tall, common or European
barberry, further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties,
within the village. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 791, 11-14-2005)
   (B)   Persons shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Undeveloped Residential Properties: All undeveloped residential
properties adjacent to occupied residential areas are to be mowed a distance of
fifty feet (50') from the connecting property lines any time grass or weed
growth is over eight inches (8") in height.
      2.   Subdivisions: Subdivisions, completed or under construction, must
keep weeds and grass mowed unless a lot is under construction. Immediately
after completion of construction a lot must be cleared of all materials and
mowed as per this section's eight inch (8") requirement.
      3.   Village Owned Property: All village owned property must be kept
mowed as per this section's requirements.
      4.   Developed Business Property: All developed business property must be
kept mowed as per this section's requirements.
      5.   Undeveloped Business, Agricultural, Industrial Properties: All
undeveloped business, agricultural or industrial properties must be maintained
as per this section's requirements at least twenty feet (20') from any street
or adjoining property. (Ord. 791, 11-14-2005)
      6.   Violation: Violation of any provision of this subsection (B) shall
be punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-3-2-4: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, EXPLOSIVES 1 :
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Petroleum Products: The accumulation or storage, within one hundred
(100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business, other than a
licensed gasoline service station, of any petroleum, naphtha, benzine, coal
oil, gasoline, kerosene, turpentine or other petroleum products or inflammable
substances of any kind, in quantities greater than fifty (50) gallons; or
   (B)   Explosives: The deposit, accumulation, storage or presence, within one
hundred (100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business of any
powder magazine, nitroglycerin, dynamite or other explosive substance of any
kind. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5 of this code.
6-3-2-5: UNSAFE BUILDINGS 2 :
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence of any unsafe, dilapidated,
uncompleted, abandoned or otherwise insecure building, wall, stack, chimney,
cornice, sign, awning or other like structure of any kind which, from manner of
construction, age, condition or other circumstances, is or may become a menace
to the safety of persons or property. (Ord. 321, 11-12-1979)
 
Notes
2 2. See title 4, chapters 1 and 5 of this code.
6-3-2-6: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence or storage in any place accessible to
children of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, deep
freeze or other airtight appliance or container of any kind, of a capacity of
one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, from which the lids, doors or other
covers have not been removed, or which cannot be easily opened by a child, by
means of pushing only, from the inside thereof. (1971 Code)
6-3-2-7: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES:
   (A)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for
any person to cause, permit or allow the existence of any inoperable motor
vehicle or any parts of a motor vehicle to exist or be stored outdoors upon any
public or private property; provided, however, that nothing in this section
shall apply to any motor vehicle or part thereof that is kept in a building, or
to a motor vehicle or parts thereof completely on the premises of a duly
licensed junkyard.
   (B)   "Inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle which does not bear
a current registration and state license plate or which, for a period of seven
(7) days, is incapable of being driven legally under its own motor power upon
the roads and highways of the state. A "motor vehicle" is any vehicle which is
self- propelled except for vehicles moved solely by human power and motorized
wheelchairs. The state license plate requirement of this section shall not
apply to farm tractors, lawn tractors, or any vehicle for which the state does
not normally issue license plates.
   (C)   A person shall fall within that class of persons who shall be deemed
to cause, permit or allow such a nuisance to exist if such person:
      1.   Owns or is in control of the inoperable motor vehicle;
      2.   Causes the inoperable motor vehicle to be deposited at the site in
question;
      3.   Owns the real estate upon which the inoperable vehicle is located;
      4.   Owns or operates a business which causes, permits or allows such a
nuisance to exist on the real estate upon which the business is operated or on
adjacent real estate which is under the control of the business owner or
operator; or
      5.   Has an ownership interest in real estate upon which a business is
being operated and the operator or the owner of said business causes, permits
or allows such a nuisance to exist on the real estate upon which the business
is being operated or on adjacent real estate which is under the control of the
person having an ownership interest in real estate upon which said business is
being operated.
   (D)   Whenever any police officer determines that a nuisance as declared in
this section exists, the police officer shall cause a written notice to be
served personally upon the person who is causing, permitting or allowing the
nuisance to exist. Said notice shall give the person served seven (7) days from
the date of service of the notice to abate the nuisance. Such notice shall be
by means of personal service or by certified or registered mail. Personal
service shall be by any police officer of the police department or any person
authorized by law to make personal service. (Ord. 633, 7-14-1997)
   (E)   Any person who shall cause, permit or allow such a nuisance to
continue or exist after the expiration of seven (7) days from the date of
service of the notice shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a penalty
by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such nuisance continues or exists after the
expiration of the aforesaid seven (7) days shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. Further, each such inoperable vehicle shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 633, 7-14-1997; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
   (F)   Whenever any person causes, permits or allows such a nuisance to
continue or exist after the expiration of seven (7) days from the service of
the notice, the village may, at its option, cause the abatement of the nuisance
specified in this section by the same method of disposal of abandoned vehicles
provided in subsections 9-1-5-15(C) and (D) and sections 9-1-5-16 through 9-1-
5-20 of this code. Further, when a vehicle located within the corporate limits
of the village is authorized to be towed away by the chief of police and
disposed of as set forth above by sale, the proceeds of the public sale or
disposition, after the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges,
shall be deposited in the village treasury. (Ord. 633, 7-14-1997)
6-3-2-8: DUST, CINDERS:
   (A)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public health and a nuisance for
any person to cause or permit any operations that cause or permit any dirt,
sand, gravel, cinders, ashes, earth or other similar materials to be hauled,
moved, rolled, compacted, scraped, dragged or otherwise disturbed, so as to
cause or permit dust to be raised, blown or stirred through the operation of
machinery or otherwise, to the detriment of any person or property.
   (B)   Every person engaged in hauling of any sand, dirt, cinders, ashes,
earth or other similar materials or substances, or engaged in the moving,
rolling, compacting, scraping, dragging or other disturbance of soil and the
like, shall make adequate provision as often as is required to arrest and
prevent such dust through the use of salts, oil, chemicals and other materials
used and recommended for retarding or eliminating such dust, subject to the
supervision and approval of the superintendent of public works. (1971 Code)
6-3-2-9: SCAFFOLDING, LADDERS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person:
   (A)   To erect or use, or to cause or permit to be erected or used, any
insecure or unsafe scaffold or ladder whereby the safety of persons working
thereon or passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
   (B)   To place or leave, or to cause or permit to be placed or left, any
tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder in such manner that the same
may fall into any street, sidewalk or other public way, whereby the safety of
persons passing thereunder may in any way be endangered. (1971 Code)
6-3-2-10: UNAUTHORIZED STORAGE FACILITIES:
   (A)   Definitions:
    CARGO CONTAINER: Covers any container that is transported by truck,
flatbed, trailer or semi that is to be placed on any premises for the purpose
of storage. These containers are designed with no wheels, axles or tongues and
are supported with a floor elevated by skids.
   CONSTRUCTION TRAILER: Any trailer used for construction purposes and is
pulled behind a vehicle to and from job sites.
   SEMITRAILER: Any trailer that requires a commercial sized truck single or
dual axle for transport. These trailers have wheels, axles, tongues and are
licensed for transport of merchandise on state roadways.
   (B)   General: Cargo containers/semitrailers are considered storage
containers when they have not moved off the premises for ninety (90) days or
more, or containers whose principal use is as a storage facility on the
premises.
      1.   Cargo containers/semitrailers presently located within the village
limits before October 1, 2005, are allowed to remain in their present
locations, but are required to meet with the provisions and requirements
contained in subsection (B)2 of this section.
      2.   All cargo containers/semitrailers must be painted, fenced or have
siding and be in good visual and physical condition. Violators shall be given
two (2) weeks to bring any violation up to code. After two (2) weeks, violators
shall be given a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day until the violation is
brought up to code.
      3.   All cargo containers/semitrailers are prohibited from being located
in a floodplain.
      4.   Cargo containers are prohibited from being stacked within the
village. (The only exception to this rule is that the fire department is
allowed to stack 2 units for the purpose of fire training.)
      5.   Any cargo container/semitrailer which is used as a storage unit (and
has been used as such prior to October 1, 2005) shall be placed in an area that
will not interfere with emergency vehicles. Any container that blocks access to
emergency vehicle routes must be moved immediately or the authorities of the
village will move the container at the owner's expense.
      6.   All campers, RVs, cars, trucks, boats, etcetera, shall not be used
for the sole purpose of storage and must meet the guidelines defined in section
6-3-2-7 of this article.
      7.   Any trailers, construction trailers, boats, or tow behind haulers
may not be freestanding on the public roadway and are required to be attached
to a vehicle and able to be moved from the roadways upon request by the
authorities. Any freestanding trailers, construction trailers, boats or tow
behind haulers must be removed within twenty four (24) hours from roadway or a
written notice will be issued. Owner shall have twenty four (24) hours from the
receipt of said written notice to make arrangements to move said trailer,
construction trailer, boat or tow behind hauler and if it is not moved, a fine
of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day shall be imposed upon the owner. If any
trailer, construction trailer, boat or tow behind hauler is on the public
roadway and is blocking access to an emergency vehicle, said trailer,
construction trailer, boat or tow behind hauler shall be moved by the village
without notice to owner at the owner's expense.
      8.   All cargo containers/semitrailers must be placed on a suitable
surface and must be as level as possible.
      9.   Any cargo container/semitrailer that will be used as a storage unit
for flammable and/or volatile materials shall be labeled with the proper
insignias and the owner shall inform the fire and police departments of the
contents of said storage unit. This subsection (B)9 shall in no way alter or
provide any basis for altering any existing ordinances regarding such material
storage.
   (C)   Residential Restrictions: Residential areas zoned R-1 through R-4:
      1.   Semitrailers are prohibited.
      2.   A variance will be required for the use of cargo containers.
      3.   Large amounts of flammable materials are not allowed.
   (D)   Commercial And Industrial Restrictions: Commercial areas zoned B-1 and
B-2 and industrial areas zoned I-1 and I-2:
      1.   Cargo containers/semitrailers may not be used as a business
facility. They may be used for storage of materials for a business.
      2.   Commercial areas that are less than five thousand (5,000) square
feet are limited to one cargo container.
      3.   Commercial areas that are between five thousand (5,000) and twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet are allowed two (2) cargo containers.
      4.   Commercial areas that are over twenty thousand (20,000) square feet
are allowed a total of four (4) cargo containers/semitrailers or any
combination thereof.
      5.   Square footage is a total of land space, including any buildings
that are located on this space.
      6.   A variance may be acquired for businesses that need additional cargo
containers/semitrailers for use such as sales, storage on rental space,
etcetera. (Limits are to be determined by the Zoning Board as the Zoning Board
deems appropriate.)
      7.   The owner of the land or business facility will be responsible for
any storage container located on their property.
   (E)   Construction Trailers: Construction trailers may be used for short
term storage devices but must be licensed, painted, and in good condition and
shall be "road ready". (Ord. 794, 1-23-2006)
6-3-2-11: GARAGE SALES:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to hold a garage/yard sale except as permitted in subsection (B) of this
section within the Village.
   (A)   Definitions:
    GARAGE SALE: Shall include any and all sales held in the home, garage or
yard of any resident or business within the Village of North Pekin, including,
but not limited to, yard sale, garage sale, estate sale or any other tag sale.
Garage sale shall not include any commercial business otherwise authorized
under this Code.
   (B)   Permitted Garage Sales: Any resident or business shall hold no more
than four (4) garage sales per year (for a maximum of 3 days per sale). All
items, including items for sale, tables, chairs, etc., must be removed from the
yard after the end of each garage sale. (Ord. 992, 10-26-2015)
ARTICLE III.  ABATEMENT
SECTION:
6-3-3-1: Notice To Abate Nuisance
6-3-3-2: Abatement Of Nuisances; Duty To Abate; Time Limits
6-3-3-3: Failure To Abate; Separate And Recurring Offense; Penalty
6-3-3-4: Failure To Abate; Abatement By Village
6-3-3-5: Summary Abatement By Village When Emergency Or On Public Property
6-3-3-6: Costs Of Abatement; Debt Of Owner
6-3-3-1: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
   (A)   Whenever any health or building official or inspector, or any police
or fire officer, determines that a nuisance exists on any private property or
premises, the proper Village official shall cause a written notice to be served
upon the owner or owners thereof and the lessee or person in control of the
property or premises who is causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance
which notice shall be a notice to appear in court regarding said nuisance. Such
notice shall be by means of personal service of a copy of the complaint, or by
certified or registered mail of a copy of the complaint.
   (B)   Such notice shall fairly apprise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his duty to remove the nuisance, the penalty for failure to remove
the nuisance, and shall state that, if said nuisance is abated by the Village,
liability for necessary expenses so incurred shall accrue as provided for in
section
6-3-3-6 of this article. (Ord. 733, 11-11-2002)
6-3-3-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES; DUTY TO ABATE; TIME LIMITS:
It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have created,
caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist within the Village
to discontinue and abate such nuisance within the time period as may be
specified in the written notice, from the time he received written notice
thereof. (Ord. 321, 11-12-1979)
6-3-3-3: FAILURE TO ABATE; SEPARATE AND RECURRING OFFENSE; PENALTY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
neglect, refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after
expiration of the specified time period provided by notice thereof; and each
twenty four (24) hours, or fraction thereof, during which such nuisance
continues or exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall cause, permit or allow a nuisance to continue or
exist as provided for in subsection (A) of this section shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a penalty of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 321, 11-12-1979)
6-3-3-4: FAILURE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, lien holder of record, lessee
or person in control of premises or property affected within the time provided
by notice, the proper Village officer shall cause the abatement or removal of
such nuisance. Provided that if the nuisance is an unsafe or dangerous building
as declared under section
6-3-2-5 of this chapter, the Village Attorney shall apply to the Circuit Court
of Tazewell County for an order authorizing the repair or demolition of the
building. (Ord. 321, 11-12-1979)
6-3-3-5: SUMMARY ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE WHEN EMERGENCY OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Whenever any nuisance: a) constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent or
immediate danger to public health or safety, or b) exists on public property,
the proper Village officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily and
immediately abated and removed, regardless of any time period specified by
notice to the person responsible therefor; provided, however, that in situation
a) of this section, such officer shall have first applied for and obtained the
written permission of the President for such summary abatement. (Ord. 321, 11-
12-1979)
6-3-3-6: COSTS OF ABATEMENT; DEBT OF OWNER:
   (A)   In the event the person or persons served with notice as required by
this chapter fail to abate such nuisance within the time period provided by the
notice and the Village, pursuant to section
6-3-3-4 of this article, abates such nuisance, the costs or expenses of
abatement reasonably incurred by the Village, including any filing fees,
attorney fees or court costs, are recoverable from the owner or owners of such
real estate and shall be a lien thereon, which lien shall be superior to all
prior existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes; provided, that within
sixty (60) days after abatement of the nuisance by the Village, the Village or
person performing the service by authority of the Village, in his or its own
name, shall file notice of lien in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of
Tazewell County setting out by sworn statement:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof; and
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred; and
      3.   The date or dates when the cost or expense was incurred by the
Village.
Such lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case of
mortgages or mechanic's liens; but such suits must be commenced within three
(3) years after the date of filing notice of the lien.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to enforce by civil
action any and all such debts or liens as provided in subsection (A) of this
section. (Ord. 321, 11-12-1979)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMALS
ARTICLE I.  IN GENERAL; DOGS, CATS
SECTION:
6-4-1-1: Definitions
6-4-1-2: Dog License Required; Unauthorized Transfer Of License
6-4-1-3: Running At Large; Impoundment
6-4-1-4: Prohibited Acts
6-4-1-5: Nuisance; Exceptions
6-4-1-6: Inoculations; Impoundment
6-4-1-7: Vicious Dogs
6-4-1-8: Enforcement Officers
6-4-1-9: Penalty
6-4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms shall mean as indicated
below:
ANIMAL: Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the immediate control of
either the owner or a person the owner has designated to be in control.
However, if an animal under the control of a village official or veterinarian
escapes and runs loose, it shall not be considered "at large".
BITING: The infliction of a break in the skin or a wound by the teeth of an
animal.
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS: Includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the following:
   (A)   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing, abusing,
tormenting, knowingly poisoning, knowingly attempting to poison, mutilating or
killing any animal or causing or knowingly permitting the same to be done.
   (B)   Working any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or causing or
knowingly permitting the same to be done.
   (C)   Unnecessarily failing to provide an animal in one's charge or custody
as owner or otherwise with proper food, drink and proper sanitary shelter.
   (D)   Abandoning any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal by leaving
such animal on any highway or public way or in any other place where it may
suffer injury, hunger, exposure or become a public charge.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog which has bitten any person or which causes reasonable
fear of bodily injury to any person by attacking or threatening to attack such
person.
DOG: Any and all animals of the canine species.
ENCLOSURE: A securely locked pen, kennel or structure of at least six feet (6')
in height designed and constructed for the keeping of a vicious dog and
designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the standards set forth
herein. Such pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides and a secure top
attached to the sides, as well as be suitable to prevent the entry of young
children. All structures used to confine vicious dogs must be locked with a key
or combination lock when such animals are within the structure and left
unattended. Such structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the
sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground not
less than two feet (2'). All structures erected to house vicious dogs must
comply with all zoning and building regulations of the village. All such
structures must be adequately lighted, ventilated and kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. All such structures shall be in a back yard and not a front
yard.
IMPOUNDED: Taken into the custody of the public pound in the county, city,
village or town where the vicious dog is found.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department owning,
harboring or keeping an animal within the village. For purposes of this
chapter, the person last issued a dog license shall be presumed to be the owner
of such dog. A person harboring or keeping an unlicensed animal in the village
for a period of five (5) days shall be presumed to be the owner of such animal.
RUN LINE: A system of tying a dog in place with either a cable or chain having
a minimum tensile strength of not less than three hundred (300) pounds and not
exceeding ten feet (10') in length. The cable or chain must be securely
fastened to a permanent, nonmoveable object and prevent the dog from climbing,
digging, jumping or otherwise escaping under its own volition.
VICIOUS DOG: Any individual dog that:
   (A)   When unprovoked, bites or attacks a human being or other animal either
on public or private property; or
   (B)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack without
provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals; or
   (C)   Has as a trait or characteristic, and a generally known reputation for
viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks upon human beings or other
animals, unless handled in a particular manner or with special equipment; or
   (D)   Attacks a human being or domestic animal without provocation; or
   (E)   Has been found to be a "dangerous dog" upon two (2) separate
occasions.
No dog shall be deemed "vicious" if it bites, attacks, or menaces a trespasser
on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has tormented or
abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement or
professionally trained guard dog. Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a
manner that is specific as to breed. (Ord. 748, 6-23-2003)
6-4-1-2: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED; UNAUTHORIZED TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or maintain any
dog within the village without first securing an annual dog license therefor
and tagging the dog therewith, as prescribed by Tazewell County.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any license tag on any
dog other than the dog for which such tag was issued. (Ord. 748, 6-23-2003)
6-4-1-3: RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat shall contain such animal to the confines
of the owner's real property unless the animal is under restraint.
   (B)   Every owner of a dog or cat is prohibited from allowing said animal to
run at large.
   (C)   Any dog or cat found running at large shall be apprehended and
impounded in any existing or available public pound.
   (D)   The provisions of subsections (A), (B), and (C) of this section shall
not apply to:
      1.   Dogs being used in hunting, field trials;
      2.   Dog shows while on public lands set aside for those purposes;
      3.   While on private property of others with the actual, implied,
customary or constructive consent of the owner of such private premises;
      4.   While going to or coming from a hunting, field trial or dog show
site;
      5.   Bloodhounds or other dogs used for tracking in conjunction with
police activities;
      6.   Dogs of the canine corps of any police force, the state police, any
federal law enforcement agency, or the armed forces while being used to conduct
official business or being used for official purposes. (Ord. 748, 6-23-2003)
6-4-1-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   Female Dogs And Cats In Heat: Every owner of a female dog or cat shall
cause such dog or cat to be securely confined in an enclosed place while in
heat.
   (B)   Refusal To Deliver Dog Or Other Animal: Any officer of the law may
enter upon private premises to apprehend a straying dog or other animal, a
dangerous dog or other animal, or a dog or other animal thought to be infected
with rabies. If, after request therefor, the owner of such dog or other animal
shall refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the officer, the owner shall
be in violation of this section.
   (C)   Abandonment Of Rabid Animals: The owner of any animal subject to
rabies is prohibited from abandoning such animal in the village. (Ord. 748, 6-
23-2003)
6-4-1-5: NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Nuisance Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
      2.   No person owning, possessing or harboring any animal within the
village shall permit said animal to become a nuisance. An animal, other than a
dog trained for law enforcement in the performance of its duty, shall be
considered a nuisance if said animal:
         (a)   Substantially damages property other than the owner's;
         (b)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous or unreasonably offensive
conditions;
         (c)   Causes a disturbance by excessive barking, caterwauling or other
noisemaking;
         (d)   Chases vehicles;
         (e)   Chases, molests, attacks, bites, interferes with or physically
intimidates any person while on or off the premises of the owner; or
         (f)   Chases, molests, attacks, bites or interferes with other animals
while off the premises of the owner.
   (B)   Exceptions: Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs
for the physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are
exempt from this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs
while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under
this section, each dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in
accordance with section
6-4-1-6 of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog
to notify the authorized official of changes of address. In the case of a
sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the authorized official advised of
the location where such dog will be stationed. (Ord. 748, 6-23-2003)
6-4-1-6: INOCULATIONS; IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Rabies Vaccine Required: Every owner of a dog or cat four (4) or more
months of age shall cause such dog or cat to be inoculated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian annually or at such intervals as hereafter may be
promulgated by Tazewell County. Evidence of such inoculation shall be entered
upon a certificate, and the certificate shall be signed by the licensed
veterinarian administering the vaccine.
   (B)   Type And Brand Of Vaccine: The type and brand of rabies vaccine shall
be licensed by the U.S. department of agriculture and approved by the
department.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person who violates subsections (A) and (B) of this
section shall pay a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first
violation, seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the second violation occurring
within a twelve (12) month period and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the
third and each successive violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day
a person fails to comply constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Apprehension And Impounding Of Dogs And Cats Not Wearing Evidence Of
Inoculation: Any dog found not wearing a current registration tag, and for
which no current registration certificate can be produced; and any cat found
not wearing a current inoculation tag, may be apprehended and impounded by the
administrator or his deputies provided the administrator or his deputies have
reason to believe such animal is four (4) months or more of age.
When a dog or cat is apprehended and impounded by the administrator pursuant to
this section, he shall give notice of not less than seven (7) days to the
owner, if known. Such notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the
owner. An affidavit or testimony of the administrator, or his authorized agent,
who mails such notice shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of such
notice by the owner of such animal. In case the owner of any impounded animal
desires to make redemption thereof, he may do so on the following conditions:
      1.   He must present proof of current rabies inoculation and
registration, if applicable, or
      2.   He must pay for the rabies inoculation of the animal and
registration, if applicable, and
      3.   He must pay the pound for the board of the animal for the period it
was impounded.
Any animal not redeemed by the owner which has been impounded for failure to be
inoculated or registered in accordance with this section shall be humanely
dispatched, offered for adoption, or otherwise disposed of by the pound as a
stray animal in accordance with the laws that exist or may hereafter exist. Any
person purchasing or adopting such animal with or without charge or donation,
must pay for the rabies inoculation, and registration, if applicable of such
animal. (Ord. 748, 6-23-2003)
6-4-1-7: VICIOUS DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, own, or in any way possess
within the corporate limits of the village a vicious dog, subject to the
following exceptions and standards:
   (A)   Identification Of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Any law enforcement officer or animal control officer employed by or
under contract with the village who suspects that a dog may be vicious within
the meaning of this chapter may conduct an investigation to determine whether
or not the dog has committed any act or displays any characteristics which
qualify it as a vicious dog. If upon the completion of such investigation the
officer concludes that the dog is a vicious dog, such officer shall issue a
written notice of determination which includes at least the following:
         (a)   A description of the dog;
         (b)   Information available concerning the ownership of the dog;
         (c)   A statement or conclusion that the dog is a "vicious dog" within
the meaning of this chapter;
         (d)   A description of the acts or characteristics which led the
officer to conclude that the dog is a vicious dog;
         (e)   Notice to the owner that the vicious dog must be licensed and
housed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter;
         (f)   Notice that the owner may appeal the determination of the
officer to the mayor within seven (7) working days after the determination is
served upon the owner.
The officer shall serve the notice of determination on the owner by certified
mail or hand delivery to the last known address of the owner.
      2.   The owner may appeal any determination that the owner's dog is a
vicious dog. An appeal must be directed to the mayor and must be filed by the
owner in the office of the village clerk within seven (7) working days after
receipt of the notice of determination which identifies the dog as a vicious
dog. Should the owner fail to appeal the determination within seven (7) working
days, the determination of the investigating officer that the dog is a vicious
dog shall become final. Upon receipt of an appeal, the mayor, or such person as
the mayor may designate to act on the mayor's behalf, shall convene a hearing
for the purpose of determining whether the dog in question is a vicious dog.
      3.   The hearing shall be held within no less than five (5) nor more than
ten (10) working days after the mayor or his designee serves a notice of the
time, date and location of the hearing upon the owner of the allegedly vicious
dog. The hearing shall be conducted informally and shall remain open to the
public. At the hearing, the owner shall have the opportunity to present
evidence to explain why the dog should not be declared a vicious dog. The owner
shall have the right to be represented by legal counsel at the owner's expense.
The officer who made the initial determination that the dog is vicious, and any
other persons having knowledge of the facts and circumstances, may be heard by
the mayor or his designee and shall be subject to cross examination by the
owner or the owner's attorney. The mayor or his designee shall decide all
issues for or against the owner of the dog regardless of whether the owner
appears at the hearing.
      4.   Within five (5) working days after the conclusion of the hearing,
the mayor or his designee shall determine whether or not the dog is a "vicious
dog" within the meaning of this chapter. The mayor or his designee shall notify
the owner in writing of its determination. The decision of the mayor or his
designee shall be final.
      5.   If any officer of the village determines that the public safety
requires the immediate impoundment of a dog as authorized by this chapter, the
officer shall within a reasonable time notify the owner of the facts and
circumstances relating to the impoundment. Upon receipt of such notification,
the owner may appeal the determination of the officer to the mayor or his
designee in accordance with the procedures established hereinabove for the
identification of vicious dogs.
   (B)   Licensing Of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   No person shall possess any vicious dog for a period of more than
forty eight (48) hours without having first obtained a license therefor from
the village.
      2.   An application for a license to possess a vicious dog shall be filed
with the village on a form prescribed and provided by the village and shall be
accompanied by all of the following:
         (a)   Verification of the identity of the owner and current address by
providing a photostatic copy of the owner's driver's license.
         (b)   Proof of ownership of the vicious dog.
         (c)   A copy of the current immunization and health record of the
vicious dog prepared by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the state of
Illinois.
         (d)   A certificate of insurance evidencing coverage in an amount not
less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), insuring said person against any
claim, loss, damage or injury to persons, domestic animals, or property
resulting from the acts, whether intentional or unintentional, of the vicious
dog.
         (e)   Two (2) photographs of the vicious dog to be licensed taken not
less than one month before the date of the application. One photograph shall
provide a front view of the vicious dog and shall clearly show the face and
ears of the vicious dog. One photograph shall show a complete profile of the
vicious dog.
         (f)   A license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         (g)   Such other information as may be required by the clerk of the
village.
      3.   Upon receipt of an application, the clerk of the village shall
forward such application to the police department which shall cause an
inspection of the premises on which the vicious dog shall be kept to determine
that all provisions of this section relating to confinement and posting of
signs have been complied with by the applicant. Upon completion of the
inspection, the police department shall notify the clerk of the village in
writing of the results of its inspection.
      4.   Upon receipt of the results of the police department inspection, the
clerk of the village shall notify the applicant of the approval or denial of
the license. In the event that the license is denied, the notification shall be
provided in writing and the reasons for such denial shall be stated. Upon
denial, the owner or keeper of the vicious dog shall remove the vicious dog
from the municipality within forty eight (48) hours. Upon approval, the clerk
shall issue a license to the applicant.
   (C)   Confinement Of Vicious Dogs: No person shall possess any vicious dog
unless the vicious dog is confined in accordance with this section.
      1.   Confinement Indoors: No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or
in any part of a house or structure that would allow the vicious dog to exit
the structure on its own volition. No vicious dog shall be kept in a house or
structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only obstacles preventing the vicious dog from exiting the structure.
      2.   Confinement In An Exterior Yard: No person shall confine a vicious
dog in an exterior area unless such vicious dog is confined in an enclosure
constructed and maintained in accordance with section
6-4-1-1 of this chapter, except that a vicious dog may be confined outside of
an enclosure in a manner set forth in subsection (C)3 of this section.
      3.   Confinement On Leash And Run Line: No person shall permit a vicious
dog to go outside an enclosure, house or other structure unless the vicious dog
is securely restrained with a leash no longer than three feet (3') in length
and fitted with a muzzle or securely restrained on a run line no longer than
ten feet (10') in length and fitted with a muzzle. No person shall permit a
vicious dog to be kept on a leash unless a person is in actual physical control
of the leash. The run line should be in the back yard and is not allowed in a
front yard.
The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the enclosure or off
the run line are: a) if it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain
veterinary care for the vicious dog, or b) to sell or give away the vicious
dog, or c) to comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or d)
to allow the owner or keeper to walk the vicious dog, provided that said
vicious dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash having a minimum
tensile strength of at least three hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three
feet (3') in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of
the owner or keeper of the vicious dog.
   (D)   Impoundment Of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Any vicious dog which is not properly confined to an enclosure, on a
run line, or properly secured by a leash under the owner's or keeper's control
shall be impounded by the law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such
area; provided, however, that if the village animal control officer or any
village police officer reasonably believes that such dog poses an immediate
threat of severe injury to any person, such officials are authorized to kill
such dog. Any vicious dog found to be running at large by any member of the
police department of a municipality shall be presumed to be in violation of
this section and shall be subject to impoundment.
      2.   If the incident giving rise to the impoundment has resulted in an
injury to a person, upon impoundment by the police department, the chief of
police or his designee shall notify the rabies control administrator of the
county pursuant to 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12, as amended, and shall
transfer control of the vicious dog to the administrator in accordance with 510
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/13, as amended.
      3.   Any dog which attacks a human being or other domestic animal may be
ordered destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner, when in the court's
judgment, such dog represents a continuing threat of serious harm to human
beings or other domestic animals. However, prior to the destruction of the dog,
control of the dog must be transferred to the administrator pursuant to
subsection (D)2 of this section.
      4.   Any vicious dog which has previously been impounded for not properly
being confined or for running at large in violation of subsection (C)1, (C)2 or
(C)3 of this section, or which has previously bitten or attacked a human being
or other domestic animal without provocation, shall be ordered destroyed in an
expeditious and humane manner upon any subsequent violations of those
subsections or upon any subsequent unprovoked attack or bite.
      5.   Any dog which attacks a human being, except for dogs listed as
exceptions to the definition of "vicious dog" in section
6-4-1-1 of this chapter, which results in severe injury shall automatically be
destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
   (E)   Redemption Of Impounded Vicious Dog: An owner of a vicious dog holding
a license pursuant to subsection (B) of this section may redeem an impounded
vicious dog if the vicious dog has been impounded pursuant to subsection (D) of
this section and the vicious dog has not caused severe injury to a person,
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Proof of a valid license issued by the village under subsection (B)
of this section; and
      2.   Payment of the cost of keeping the vicious dog during the period of
impoundment.
   (F)   Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership Prohibited: No person shall sell,
barter, offer to breed or in any other way dispose of a vicious dog to any
person within the village unless a recipient person resides permanently in the
same household and on the same premises as the registered owner of such vicious
dog; provided, that the registered owner of a vicious dog may sell or otherwise
dispose of a vicious dog or the offspring of such vicious dog to persons who do
not reside within the village, provided they give written notice to the person
who will be receiving the vicious dog that such dog has been deemed a vicious
dog under this section.
   (G)   Animals Born Of Vicious Dogs: All offspring born of vicious dogs
registered within the village must be removed from the village within eight (8)
weeks of the birth of such animal.
   (H)   Reporting Requirements Of License: Any person holding a license
pursuant to subsection (B) of this section shall report the incidence of any of
the following events:
      1.   The sale, barter, exchange, gift or death of any vicious dog shall
be reported within forty eight (48) hours.
      2.   The escape from confinement of any vicious dog shall be reported
upon discovery of the escape.
      3.   The biting or nipping of any person or animal by a vicious dog shall
be reported upon occurrence.
      4.   The birth of any offspring of a vicious dog shall be reported within
forty eight (48) hours of the birth of the offspring.
      5.   The permanent removal of any vicious dog from the territorial limits
of the municipality shall be reported within forty eight (48) hours of such
removal by surrender of the license of the owner to the clerk of the village.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the report of any incident
required to be reported under this subsection shall be made to the police
department of the municipality.
Further, all dog owners, whether or not their dog is licensed as a vicious dog,
receiving notice or having knowledge that their dog has bitten or attacked a
human being or domestic animal without provocation shall immediately notify the
police department of the village of said incident.
   (I)   Sign Required: All persons possessing a vicious dog shall display in a
prominent place on the premises where a vicious dog is to be kept a sign which
is readable by the public from a distance of not less than fifty feet (50')
using the words "Beware of Dog". A similar sign shall be posted on any
enclosure.
   (J)   Fighting Prohibited: No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight
or bait, or keep, train, or transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting,
any dog. No person shall own or harbor any dog for the purpose of dogfighting,
or train, torment, badger, bait or use any dog for the purpose of causing or
encouraging said dog to attack human beings or domestic animals without
provocation.
   (K)   Revocation Of License: A license granted pursuant to this section
shall be automatically revoked upon the second violation by the licensee of any
provision of this section. In the event of a revocation of the license, the
license fee shall be retained by the village and the vicious dog must be
removed from the municipality within forty eight (48) hours.
   (L)   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any K-9 patrol dogs or
police dogs while on duty.
   (M)   Penalties: Upon conviction of a violation of any provision of this
section, the court shall assess a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Additionally,
any person found guilty of violating this section shall pay all expenses,
including shelter, food, veterinary expenses, and other expenses necessitated
by the seizure of the dog for the protection of the public, and such other
expenses as may be required for the destruction of any such dog.
   (N)   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a vicious dog, registered with the village to fail to comply with
the requirements and conditions set forth in this section. Any vicious dog
found to be the subject of a violation of this section shall be subject to
immediate seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply may result in
the revocation of the license of such animal resulting in the immediate removal
of the animal from the village.
   (O)   Severability: If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
section is, for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid by a decision
of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this section. (Ord. 748, 6-23-2003)
6-4-1-8: ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
Anyone enforcing the provisions of this chapter shall not be held responsible
for any accident or disease that may happen to any dog or cat. (Ord. 748, 6-23-
2003)
6-4-1-9: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, any person violating or aiding the
violation of this chapter, or resisting, obstructing or impeding any authorized
officer in enforcing the act, or refusing to produce for inoculation any dog in
his possession not confined at all times to an enclosed area, or who removes a
tag from a dog for purposes of destroying or concealing its identity, shall pay
a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first violation, seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for the second violation occurring within a twelve (12) month
period and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the third and each successive
violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day a person fails to comply
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 748, 6-23-2003)
ARTICLE II.  RABIES CONTROL
6-4-2-1: Rabies Vaccination Required
6-4-2-2: Certificate Of Vaccination
6-4-2-3: Duties Of Owner
6-4-2-4: Duties Of Persons Suspecting Any Dog To Be Suffering From Rabies
6-4-2-5: Duties Of Police Department
6-4-2-6: Confinement For Observation
6-4-2-7: Duties Of Owner Upon Reclaiming Dog
6-4-2-8: Rabies Epidemic; Power Of President
6-4-2-9: Duties Of Owners Upon Proclamation Of Rabies Epidemic
6-4-2-10: Police Authorized To Kill Certain Dogs Running At Large
6-4-2-11: False Reports Prohibited
6-4-2-1: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Every owner of a dog four (4) months or more of age shall cause such
dog to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian at such
intervals as may hereafter be established by regulations pursuant to the animal
control act of the state of Illinois.
   (B)   Every owner of a cat four (4) months or more of age shall cause such
cat to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and shall
further cause said cat to be reinoculated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian during each period of not more than twelve (12) months duration
thereafter.
   (C)   Evidence of such inoculation as set forth in subsections (A) and (B)
of this section shall consist of a certificate furnished and signed by the
person administering the vaccine containing such pertinent data as may be
prescribed by the administrator; and
      1.   One copy of such certificate shall be provided to the owner.
      2.   One copy of the certificate shall be filed with the Tazewell County
animal control department within twenty (20) days of inoculation.
      3.   One copy of the certificate shall be retained by the veterinarian
administering the vaccine for a period of five (5) years.
   (D)   The type and brand of rabies vaccine used shall be approved by the
United States department of agriculture and the department.
   (E)   Any licensed veterinarian who inoculates cats against rabies shall
procure from the administrator serially numbered tags, one to be issued with
each inoculation certificate. Such tag shall at all times be attached to a
collar or harness worn by the cat for which the certificate and tag have been
issued. A fee of one dollar ($1.00) shall be collected by the licensed
veterinarian administering inoculation at the time of the inoculation and such
tag fees shall be paid at such intervals as the administrator may direct to the
Tazewell animal control department to be used to defray the cost of the rabies
control program. (Ord. 271, 12-15-1975)
6-4-2-2: CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION:
Every licensed veterinarian who vaccinates a dog shall issue a certificate of
vaccination to the owner of such dog stating the name and address of the owner,
a brief description of the dog and the date of such vaccination. (1971 Code)
6-4-2-3: DUTIES OF OWNER:
   (A)   Any owner receiving notice or having knowledge that his dog has been
bitten by any animal suffering or suspected to be suffering from rabies, or
that his dog has bitten any person, shall immediately notify or deliver his dog
to any police officer who shall place the dog in a licensed veterinary hospital
for observation, or such owner shall himself immediately notify the village
clerk of the name and location of such hospital.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog, upon receiving notice or
having knowledge that such dog has bitten any person or that such dog has been
bitten by any animal suffering or suspected to be suffering from rabies, to
sell or give away such dog, or permit such dog to run at large, or to be taken
beyond the village except to a veterinary hospital within the county; and it
shall also be unlawful for such owner to refuse to deliver said dog for
observation as provided herein. (1971 Code)
6-4-2-4: DUTIES OF PERSONS SUSPECTING ANY DOG TO BE SUFFERING FROM RABIES:
   (A)   Every veterinarian or other person discovering or suspecting any dog
to be suffering from rabies shall immediately report this matter to the police
department of the village, giving the name and address of the owner of such
dog, if known, the place where the dog can be found and the license tag number
of such dog, if known.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section only, any dog which has bitten any
person shall be presumed to be suffering from rabies. (1971 Code)
6-4-2-5: DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Upon being notified that a dog has bitten any person or is suspected of
suffering from rabies, the police department shall:
   (A)   When the owner of the dog is known, notify such owner and direct such
owner to deliver up the dog to a licensed veterinary hospital for observation;
or
   (B)   When the owner of the dog is unknown, immediately take up said dog and
confine said dog to a licensed veterinary hospital for observation.
   (C)   When a dog is taken up under the provisions of subsection (B) of this
section, notify the owner, if known, of the confinement of such dog within
seven (7) days after the confinement begins or the identity of the owner is
discovered. (1971 Code)
6-4-2-6: CONFINEMENT FOR OBSERVATION:
   (A)   Confinement of a dog for observation under this article shall be for a
period of ten (10) days. The dog shall be examined immediately after
confinement and again before the ten (10) day period has expired.
   (B)   The veterinarian shall submit to the clerk a certificate following
each examination stating whether or not the dog shows symptoms of rabies.
   (C)   If the dog is found rabid the dog shall be destroyed in a humane
manner. If the dog is destroyed, or if it shall die within the ten (10) day
observation period, its head shall be sent to the veterinarian to the
laboratory of the state department of public health.
   (D)   If the dog is not found rabid by the end of the confinement period,
the owner shall be so notified and the dog may be released to its owner, and
the village clerk so advised. (1971 Code)
6-4-2-7: DUTIES OF OWNER UPON RECLAIMING DOG:
   (A)   An owner may reclaim any dog impounded under the provisions of this
article within seven (7) days after the period for observing said dog has
expired by paying the costs incurred during the observation period, and the
cost of a license if the dog was unlicensed, and the costs of a rabies
vaccination shot if the owner cannot prove the dog has been properly vaccinated
as provided in section
6-4-1-6 of this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner or keeper does not claim the dog within this time, then
any person may redeem it by making like payments.
   (C)   If the dog is not claimed as set forth herein, it shall be destroyed
in a humane manner, and any unpaid costs incurred by a licensed veterinarian in
compliance with this article shall be paid to said veterinarian in an amount
not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) upon receipt by the village of an itemized
bill setting forth said costs. (1971 Code)
6-4-2-8: RABIES EPIDEMIC; POWER OF PRESIDENT:
   (A)   Whenever the president shall deem it necessary to prevent an epidemic
of rabies, he may issue a proclamation requiring the owners of all dogs to keep
them securely confined or to keep them properly muzzled or leashed, so they
cannot bite, for such times as may be designated in the proclamation or until
otherwise notified.
   (B)   The president shall publish such proclamation in a paper of general
circulation within the village and post such proclamation in the village hall.
(1971 Code)
6-4-2-9: DUTIES OF OWNERS UPON PROCLAMATION OF RABIES EPIDEMIC:
Following any proclamation as set forth in the preceding section, it shall be
unlawful for any owner to permit his dog to run at large in violation of the
provisions of such proclamation. In addition to the penalties provided with
respect to any such owner for violating this section, a dog running at large
unmuzzled shall be impounded. (1971 Code)
6-4-2-10: POLICE AUTHORIZED TO KILL CERTAIN DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
Any policeman may kill a dog running at large which is suspected of suffering
from rabies if the dog, in the opinion of the police officer, cannot be safely
taken up and impounded, or if the police officer deems such killing essential
to the safety of any person. (1971 Code)
6-4-2-11: FALSE REPORTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make any report required by this article
without having a reasonable belief in its truth and accuracy. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE III.  OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-4-3-1: Annoying Noises
6-4-3-2: Causing Animal To Make Annoying Noises
6-4-3-3: Complaint Of Annoying Noises
6-4-3-4: Animals Disturbing The Peace Declared A Nuisance
6-4-3-5: Animals Prohibited From Running At Large
6-4-3-6: Animals Running At Large Declared A Nuisance
6-4-3-7: Defecation By Dogs On Private Property
6-4-3-8: Destruction Of Private Property By Dog
6-4-3-9: Restriction Of Animals From Public Places
6-4-3-10: Threatening Or Annoying Dogs
6-4-3-11: Dogs Chasing Vehicles Or Bicycles
6-4-3-12: Authority To Take Up Dogs Running At Large On Private Property Or
Public Places
6-4-3-13: Vicious And Dangerous Dogs
6-4-3-14: Impounding Dangerous Dogs (Rep. by Ord. 968, 4-14-2014)
6-4-3-15: Cruelty To Animals
6-4-3-16: Duty Upon Striking Animal With Motor Vehicle
6-4-3-17: Intentional Injuring Of Animals
6-4-3-18: Procurement Of Animal Without Knowledge Of Owner
6-4-3-19: Abandoning Animals Within Village
6-4-3-20: Keeping Animals In Sanitary Condition
6-4-3-21: Offensive Odors
6-4-3-22: Female Dogs And Cats In Heat
6-4-3-23: Use Of Animals For Indecent Purposes
6-4-3-24: Certain Animals Prohibited In Village
6-4-3-25: Diseased Or Dying Animals; Running At Large
6-4-3-26: Dead Or Dying Animals; Removal Required
6-4-3-27: Dead Or Dying Animals; Burial, Throwing Into Streets, Keeping
6-4-3-28: Fowl, Rabbits
6-4-3-1: ANNOYING NOISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal which disturbs
the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night, and it shall be unlawful
for any such person to permit any animal to make such noises. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-2: CAUSING ANIMAL TO MAKE ANNOYING NOISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any animal in any manner which
causes such animal to disturb the peace by loud noises at any time of day or
night. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-3: COMPLAINT OF ANNOYING NOISES:
Any person residing in a neighborhood whose quietness has been disturbed by any
animal owned or possessed within the neighborhood may make a sworn complaint
before a village police officer or the village clerk against the owner or
possessor of said animal. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-4: ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any animal which disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night
is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be impounded by the village dog
catcher or a village police officer, and may be redeemed only by paying the
appropriate fees as provided in section
6-4-4-5 of this chapter. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-5: ANIMALS PROHIBITED FROM RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal, whether properly tagged and
certified by vaccination, registration or not, to permit or allow such animal
to run at large off the property of the owner. Violation of any provision of
this section shall be punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 271, 12-15-1975; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
6-4-3-6: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE DECLARED A NUISANCE:
   (A)   The provisions of section
6-4-3-5 of this article shall not apply to animals being used in hunting, field
trials and animal shows while on public lands set aside for those purposes,
while on the private property of others with the actual, implied customary or
constructive consent of the owner of such private premises, or while on
federal, state, municipal or county roads or highways, in a rural area, while
going to or coming from a hunting, field trial or animal show site. Nor shall
the provisions or prohibitions in this subsection apply to bloodhounds or other
dogs used for tracking in conjunction with police activities, nor to dogs of
the canine corps of any municipal police force, the Illinois highway patrol,
and federal law enforcement agency, or the armed forces of the United States,
while being used to conduct official business or being used for official
purposes.
   (B)   Any animal found running at large off the premises of the owner shall
be apprehended and impounded at any existing or available public pound.
   (C)   When any animal is apprehended and impounded pursuant to this section,
notice of not less than seven (7) days shall be given to the owner, if known.
Such notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner. An
affidavit or testimony of the administrator, or his authorized agent, who mails
such notice shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of such notice by the
owner of such animal. In case the owner of any impounded animal desires to make
redemption thereof, he may do so in the following conditions:
      1.   He must present proof of current inoculation and registration; or
      2.   He must pay for the rabies inoculation of the animal and
registration; and
      3.   He must pay the pound for the board of the animal for the period it
was impounded; and
      4.   He must pay an additional five dollars ($5.00) as a reclamation fee
for the first such occasion said animal was apprehended running at large and
ten dollars ($10.00) for each subsequent occasion, which reclamation fee shall
be paid into the animal control fund of the village. (Ord. 271, 12-15-1975)
6-4-3-7: DEFECATION BY DOGS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor to permit a dog to walk or
defecate upon private property without the consent of the occupant thereof.
(1971 Code)
6-4-3-8: DESTRUCTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY BY DOG:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog to permit such dog
to damage or destroy any personal property of another person. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-9: RESTRICTION OF ANIMALS FROM PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any animal to permit such
animal to enter any religious premises, public hall, bank building, automobile
gasoline station, public garage or any place where food or beverage is sold or
served during such time as these establishments are open for use to the public
or persons entitled to use the same; provided, however, that the owner of any
of the above establishments may permit a watchdog to remain therein if such dog
is held and restrained in such a way that such dog cannot injure any patron or
come in contact with any food. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-10: THREATENING OR ANNOYING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog to permit such dog
to cause reasonable fear of bodily injury to any person by attacking or
threatening to attack such person, or to permit such dog to jump upon any
person to the annoyance of said person. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-11: DOGS CHASING VEHICLES OR BICYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing any dog to permit such
dog to chase any motor vehicle or bicycle traveling upon any public or private
street or sidewalk. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-12: AUTHORITY TO TAKE UP DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OR
PUBLIC PLACES:
Any person finding any dog running at large upon his property or upon any
premises enumerated in section
6-4-3-9 of this article to his injury or annoyance may take up such dog and
remove it or have it impounded. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-13: VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
There is hereby adopted 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15 - 5/15.4, and the
same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling. (Ord. 968, 4-14-2014)
6-4-3-14: IMPOUNDING DANGEROUS DOGS:
(Rep. by Ord. 968, 4-14-2014)
6-4-3-15: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate, cause, procure or
encourage any fight between animals, either in private or in public.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or attempt to kill by any
means any game animal or game birds within the village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any animal within the
village in any cruel manner whatsoever. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-16: DUTY UPON STRIKING ANIMAL WITH MOTOR VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person who kills or injures any animal while
driving a motor vehicle to leave the scene of the accident without first
stopping and rendering such assistance as is practical. Such person shall
immediately report the incident to the police department. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-17: INTENTIONAL INJURING OF ANIMALS:
In addition to the other prohibitions of this article, no person shall kill or
wound, or attempt to kill or wound, by any means whatsoever, any bird or
squirrel, or rob or injure the nest of such creatures, or enter upon any
private premises or public place, for the purpose of doing any act prohibited
by this section; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to crows,
starlings, hawks, sparrows and pigeons. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-18: PROCUREMENT OF ANIMAL WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE OF OWNER:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to procure or acquire, or
attempt to procure or acquire, or knowingly cause or aid in the procurement or
acquisition of any animal for any purpose without the consent of the owner
thereof. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-19: ABANDONING ANIMALS WITHIN VILLAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in control of any animal to
abandon such animal within the village 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-4-1-1 of this chapter.
6-4-3-20: KEEPING ANIMALS IN SANITARY CONDITION:
Every owner or person in possession of an animal shall maintain his animal in a
clean and sanitary condition. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-21: OFFENSIVE ODORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit offensive odors to
emanate from the premises where he keeps any animal. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-22: FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT:
All female dogs and cats in heat shall be securely confined in an enclosed
place, which does not allow the confined animal to come in contact with other
animals. (Ord. 271, 12-15-1975)
6-4-3-23: USE OF ANIMALS FOR INDECENT PURPOSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner instigate, cause, procure,
participate in or assist in any indecent, lewd or immoral show, use or
exhibition of an animal. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-24: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN VILLAGE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit to be at large within
the village or to use, or keep within the village any of the following animals:
bees, horses, cattle, sheep, ponies, mules, goats, pigs, swine, hogs, ducks,
geese, roosters, minks, foxes, or any other livestock or poultry or any wild or
vicious animal dangerous to mankind. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any animal named above which is found at large within the village
shall be impounded, if possible; provided, however, that whenever any police
officer believes such animal endangers any person, such animal may be killed by
said officer.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties imposed upon any person violating
this section, such person shall also be liable for the costs of impounding or
killing such animal, if necessary. (Ord. 976, 8-11-2014)
6-4-3-25: DISEASED OR DYING ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow any animal afflicted with any contagious
or infectious disease to run at large or to be exposed in any public place
whereby the health of the person or other animals may be affected; nor shall
such diseased animal be removed or shipped from the premises of the owner
thereof except under the supervision of the health officer or a licensed
veterinarian.
   (B)   The health officer shall cause such disposition of any diseased animal
and such treatment of affected premises as to prevent the communication or
spread of contagion or infection.
   (C)   Whenever any animal is in any street or public place within the
village and appears, in the estimation of any police officer or village health
officer, to be injured or diseased beyond recovery, and is not being attended
and properly cared for by the owner or other proper person in control thereof,
and whenever such animal has not been removed to some private premises or other
place designated by such officer within one hour after being found or left in
such condition, such animal may be put to death by such officer or his
authorized agent and, unless at once removed by the owner, shall be treated as
any other dead animal found on a street or public place, as hereinafter
provided. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-26: DEAD OR DYING ANIMALS; REMOVAL REQUIRED:
Any person possessing any dead animal, or animal injured or diseased beyond
recovery, which is not killed for meat or is improper for use as meat, or which
is in an offensive condition or sick with an infectious or contagious disease,
shall at once notify the village health officer thereof, and upon the health
officer's order, such person at his own expense shall at once remove or cause
the removal of such animal. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-27: DEAD OR DYING ANIMALS; BURIAL, THROWING INTO STREETS, KEEPING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, deposit or throw upon any place
or street or public water, or to offensively expose or bury anywhere within the
village, the body or any part thereof of any dead or fatally diseased or
injured animal; nor shall any person keep any dead animal or any offensive
meat, bird, fowl or fish in a place where the same may be dangerous to the life
or detrimental to the health of any person. (1971 Code)
6-4-3-28: FOWL, RABBITS:
Any person wishing to keep or maintain fowl or rabbits within the corporate
limits of the village must first obtain a permit at the village hall of the
village of North Pekin. No fee shall be assessed for said permit. All fowl or
rabbits kept or maintained within the village limits of the village of North
Pekin must be kept in compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain more than six (6) chickens in any
residential area within the corporate limits of the village. Roosters shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall keep or maintain more than twelve (12) pigeons/doves
in any residential area within the corporate limits of the village, subject to
the conditions below.
   (C)   No person shall keep or maintain more than twelve (12) rabbits in any
residential area within the corporate limits of the village, subject to the
conditions below.
   (D)   Any animals kept pursuant to this section shall only be permitted on a
lot with a single-family residence which shall be inhabited on a full time
basis. Chickens, pigeons/doves and rabbits shall be prohibited at duplex and
multi-family buildings.
   (E)   The pen, poultry house or other structure designed to confine or
shelter such chickens, pigeons/doves and rabbits must be located on the tract
so that the nearest portion thereof is not less than fifteen feet (15') from
the line of the adjoining property.
   (F)   The pen, poultry house or other structure shall be located behind the
rear plane of the existing dwelling (not in the front or side yard) and shall
be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. Said structure
shall be covered and ventilated to protect the animals from inclement weather
and predators. Said structure shall be located ten feet (10') from the side and
rear yard property lines and electric service to the structure shall not be
provided by an extension cord.
   (G)   Any animal kept pursuant to this section shall be kept for personal
use only, and shall be contained within a pen, poultry house or other enclosure
or run at all times.
   (H)   Storage vessels containing feed shall be impervious to pests and
vermin.
   (I)   Any animal kept pursuant to this section must be kept in a manner so
as not to cause inconvenience or disturbance to other persons by reason of
noise, odor, nuisance or other cause.
   (J)   Any person who violates, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who
resists or opposes the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined no less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00), and for each subsequent offense such person
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00); and such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during which said violation continues. (Ord.
976, 8-11-2014)
ARTICLE IV.  IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-4-4-1: Village Animal Shelter
6-4-4-2: Animal Welfare Officer
6-4-4-3: Interference With Animal Welfare Officer
6-4-4-4: Minimum Period Before Disposal
6-4-4-5: Redemption Of Impounded Animals
6-4-4-6: Unclaimed Animals
6-4-4-7: Ex Officio Animal Welfare Officer
6-4-4-8: Temporary Animal Shelter
6-4-4-1: VILLAGE ANIMAL SHELTER:
The village shall provide and maintain an animal shelter suitable for the
impounding, confining and maintenance of all animals running at large or
otherwise subject to impounding as provided in this chapter. (1971 Code)
6-4-4-2: ANIMAL WELFARE OFFICER:
The village shall provide an animal welfare officer in charge of the animal
shelter whose duties shall include:
   (A)   The impounding of all animals delivered to him;
   (B)   The maintenance of suitable means for impounding such animals;
   (C)   The feeding, maintenance and humane treatment of all animals impounded
therein;
   (D)   The keeping of each animal separate from all other animals therein;
   (E)   The maintenance of a register in which he shall enter immediately upon
receiving an animal the breed, color, sex, age, and, if licensed the name and
address of the owner, and the number of the license tag. The disposition of
such animal shall be entered in the register at the proper time; and
   (F)   The giving of notice to the owner of a licensed animal by telephone,
mail or otherwise, or the exercise of a reasonable effort to ascertain and
notify the owner of any unlicensed animal impounded. If the owner of any animal
is not ascertained within twenty four (24) hours after impounding, such officer
shall cause public notice to be made thereof by posting a copy of the
description of such animal and the date of impounding at the shelter. (1971
Code)
6-4-4-3: INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL WELFARE OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to liberate or attempt to liberate any
animal impounded in the animal shelter, or any animal captured or within a
vehicle and being conveyed to the shelter, or to interfere in any manner with
the Animal Welfare Officer or his authorized agent in the performance of their
duties. (1971 Code)
6-4-4-4: MINIMUM PERIOD BEFORE DISPOSAL:
Except as provided by Article II of this Chapter with respect to dogs under
observation for rabies, an animal in the shelter shall be held therein at least
four (4) days for redemption. (1971 Code)
6-4-4-5: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   (A)   Any person seeking to redeem any impounded animal shall pay a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00) for the first and each subsequent time his animal is
impounded. An additional fee of three dollars ($3.00) for each day after the
first day during which such animal has been impounded shall also be paid. (Ord.
523, 2-25-1991)
   (B)   In addition, such person must prove that said animal is properly
licensed and inoculated or vaccinated against rabies as provided in this
Chapter. Absent such proof, no such animal shall be released from the shelter
until the animal be properly licensed and vaccinated, and until all costs and
expenses thereof be paid to the Village Clerk. (Ord. 236, 11-13-1972)
6-4-4-6: UNCLAIMED ANIMALS:
Whenever no person has redeemed an impounded animal, including the paying of
all required costs, within the allotted period, such animal may be killed in a
humane manner; provided, however, that when any reputable institution of
medical or scientific research of learning shall apply in writing to the
President for permission to use impounded and unclaimed animals for scientific
purposes only, the President may surrender to such institution such unclaimed
animals as are available. (1971 Code)
6-4-4-7: EX OFFICIO ANIMAL WELFARE OFFICER:
In the absence of a duly appointed Animal Welfare Officer, the Chief of Police
shall be ex officio Animal Welfare Officer and shall exercise the powers and
duties prescribed for the Animal Welfare Officer in this Chapter. (1971 Code)
6-4-4-8: TEMPORARY ANIMAL SHELTER:
In the absence of a permanently established Village Animal Shelter, the Board
of Trustees, by resolution, may designate any licensed veterinarian as the
temporary Village Animal Shelter. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE V.  PET SHOPS
SECTION:
6-4-5-1: Definition
6-4-5-2: State License Required
6-4-5-3: Duties Of Pet Shop Operator
6-4-5-4: Right Of Inspection
6-4-5-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Article, "pet shop operator" means any person who
sells, offers for sale or exchange, or offers for adoption, with or without
charge or donation, any dogs, cats, birds or other animals commonly kept as
pets, or who sells or offers for sale or exchange any food, supplies or
equipment for such animals or pets. (1971 Code)
6-4-5-2: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or activity of a
pet shop operator within the Village unless he shall be currently duly licensed
as such under the provisions of the "Pet Shop and Dog Dealer Licensing Act"
where required 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 605/2.
6-4-5-3: DUTIES OF PET SHOP OPERATOR:
Every pet shop operator shall:
   (A)   Maintain proper sanitary conditions and ensure proper ventilation;
   (B)   Provide adequate nutrition and humane care and treatment for all
animals under his custody;
   (C)   Take reasonable care to release for sale, trade or adoption only those
animals which are free from disease, injuries or abnormalities. A health
certificate meeting the requirements of the State Health Department and issued
by a licensed veterinarian for any such animal within five (5) days before such
sale, trade or adoption shall be prima facie evidence that the pet shop
operator has taken reasonable care as required herein; and
   (D)   Comply with all applicable provisions of this Code regulating health,
sanitation and safety. (1971 Code)
6-4-5-4: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
The Village Health Officer or his authorized agent shall have power to inspect
at any reasonable time the premises of any pet shop operator to determine
compliance with this Chapter or any applicable provisions of the State law.
(1971 Code)
ARTICLE VI.  PENALTIES
SECTION:
6-4-6-1: Liability Of Owner Or Keeper; Damage To Animals
6-4-6-2: Liability Of Owner Or Keeper; Injury To Persons
6-4-6-3: Liability Of Owner Or Keeper; Damage To Property
6-4-6-4: Penalty
6-4-6-5: Separability Of Penalties
6-4-6-1: LIABILITY OF OWNER OR KEEPER; DAMAGE TO ANIMALS:
The owner or keeper of any animal shall be liable for all damages that may
accrue to any other person by reason of any such animal pursuing, chasing,
wounding or killing any animal belonging to such other person; provided,
however, that no owner or keeper of any animal shall be liable for any damage
caused by such animal having rabies or other similar disease unknown to such
owner or keeper. (1971 Code)
6-4-6-2: LIABILITY OF OWNER OR KEEPER; INJURY TO PERSONS:
If an animal without provocation attacks or injures any person who is peaceably
conducting himself in any place where he may lawfully be, the owner or keeper
of such animal shall be liable in damages to the person so attacked or injured
to the full amount of the injury sustained. (1971 Code)
6-4-6-3: LIABILITY OF OWNER OR KEEPER; DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
The owner or keeper of any animal which damages or destroys any public or
private property shall be held liable for the full value of the property
damaged or destroyed. (1971 Code)
6-4-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists or
opposes the enforcement of any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined no less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00), and for each subsequent offense such person shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00); and such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each and every day during which said violation continues. (1971 Code)
6-4-6-5: SEPARABILITY OF PENALTIES:
The penalties provided for in this Article shall not be construed as precluding
each other or any other penalties and costs provided elsewhere in this Chapter.
(1971 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Hours
6-5-1: HOURS:
All public parks in the village shall be closed between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 899, 6-28-2010)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC NUDITY
SECTION:
6-6-1: Title
6-6-2: Intent
6-6-3: Definitions
6-6-4: Legislative Findings
6-6-5: Nudity, Sexual Conduct Prohibited In Establishments Dealing In Alcoholic
Beverages
6-6-6: Nudity Prohibited In Public Places
6-6-7: Exemptions
6-6-8: Territory Embraced
6-6-9: Enforcement And Penalties
6-6-10: Injunctive Relief
6-6-11: Severability
6-6-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the VILLAGE OF NORTH PEKIN PUBLIC NUDITY
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 623, 8-12-1996)
6-6-2: INTENT:
It is the intent of this Chapter to protect and preserve the health, safety,
welfare, and morals of the citizens of the Village by prohibiting a person from
intentionally or recklessly appearing or being nude, or causing another person
to appear or be nude, in a public place and in other places which may
reasonably be expected to be observed by the public within the incorporated
areas of the Village except:
   (A)   When such person appears nude in a place provided or set apart for
nudity provided: 1) such person is nude for the sole purpose of performing the
legal function(s) that is customarily intended to be performed within such
place provided or set apart for nudity and 2) such person is not nude for the
purpose of obtaining money or other financial gain for such person or for
another person or entity, or
   (B)   When the conduct of being nude cannot legally be prohibited by this
Chapter: 1) because it constitutes a part of a bona fide live communication,
demonstration, or performance by such person wherein such nudity is expressive
conduct incidental to and necessary for the conveyance or communication of a
genuine message or public expression and is not a guise or pretense utilized to
exploit nudity for profit or commercial gain (see, for instance, Board of
County Commissioners v. Dexterhouse, 348 So.2d 916 (Fla.2d DCA 1977)) and as
such is protected by the United States or Illinois Constitution or 2) because
it is otherwise protected by the United States or Illinois Constitution.
It is the Board's further intention to accomplish those intents and purposes
expressed by the Board in the "Whereas" provisions of Ordinance 623, each of
which are incorporated by reference into this Section. (Ord. 623, 8-12-1996)
6-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, when used in this Chapter, shall have the following
meanings:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: All distilled spirits and all beverages containing one-
half of one percent (0.5%) or more alcohol by volume. The percentage of alcohol
by volume shall be determined by measuring the volume of the standard ethyl
alcohol in the beverage and comparing it with the volume of the remainder of
the ingredients as though said remainder ingredients were distilled water.
BREAST: A portion of the human female mammary gland (commonly referred to as
the female breast) including the nipple and the areola (the darker colored area
of the breast surrounding the nipple) and an outside area of such gland wherein
such outside area is: a) reasonably compact and contiguous to the areola and b)
contains at least the nipple and the areola and one-fourth (1/4) of the outside
surface area of such gland.
BUTTOCKS: (For a short general description see the last sentence of this
definition). The area at the rear of the human body (sometimes referred to as
the gluteus maximus) which lies between two (2) imaginary straight lines
running parallel to the ground when a person is standing, the first or top such
line being one- half inch (1/2") below the top of the vertical cleavage of the
nates (i.e., the prominence formed by the muscles running from the back of the
hip to the back of the leg) and the second or bottom such line being one-half
inch (1/2") above the lowest point of the curvature of the fleshy protuberance
(sometimes referred to as the "gluteal fold"), and between two (2) imaginary
straight lines, one on each side of the body (the "outside lines"), which
outside lines are perpendicular to the ground and to the horizontal lines
described above and which perpendicular outside lines are perpendicular to the
ground and to the horizontal lines described above and which perpendicular
outside lines pass through the outermost point(s) at which each nate meets the
other side of each leg. Notwithstanding the above, "buttocks" shall not include
the leg, the hamstring muscle below the gluteal fold, the tensor fasciae latae
muscle or any of the above described portion of the human body that is between
either: a) the left inside perpendicular line and the left outside
perpendicular line or b) the right inside perpendicular line and the right
outside perpendicular line. For the purpose of the previous sentence the left
inside perpendicular line shall be an imaginary straight line on the left side
of the anus: a) that is perpendicular to the ground and to the horizontal lines
described above and b) that is one-third (1/3) of the distance from the anus to
the left outside line, and the right inside perpendicular line shall be an
imaginary straight line on the right side of the anus c) that is perpendicular
to the ground and to the horizontal lines described above and d) that is one-
third (1/3) of the distance from the anus to the right outside line. (The above
description can generally be described as covering 1/3 of the buttocks centered
over the cleavage for the length of the cleavage.)
ENTITY: Any proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, business
trust, joint venture, joint-stock company or other for-profit and/or not-for-
profit organization.
ESTABLISHMENT DEALING IN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Any business, commercial or other
establishment (whether for-profit or not-for- profit and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by coverage charge or membership
requirement) including those licensed by the State for sale and/or service of
alcoholic beverages, and any bottle club; hotel; motel; restaurant; nightclub;
country club; cabaret; meeting facility utilized by any religious, social,
fraternal or similar organization; business, commercial or other establishment
where a product or article is sold, dispensed, served or provided with the
knowledge, actual or implied, that the same will be, or is intended to be
mixed, combined with or drunk in connection or combination with an alcoholic
beverage on the premises or curtilage of said business, commercial or other
establishment; or business, commercial or other establishment where the
consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted. Premises, or portions thereof
such as hotel rooms, used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or
temporary in nature, shall not be deemed to be an establishment dealing in
alcoholic beverages.
NUDE: Any person insufficiently clothed in any manner so that any of the
following body parts are not entirely covered with a fully opaque covering:
   (A)   The male or female genitals, or
   (B)   The male or female pubic area, or
   (C)   The female breast (see the last sentence in this definition), or
   (D)   The buttocks. Attire which is insufficient to comply with this
requirement includes, but is not limited to, G-strings, T-backs, dental floss
and thongs.
Body paint, body dyes, tattoos, liquid latex whether wet or dried, and similar
substances shall not be considered opaque covering. Each female person may
determine which one-fourth (1/4) of her breast surface area (see definition of
"breast" in this Section) contiguous to and containing the nipple and the
areola is to be covered.
PERSON: Any live human being aged ten (10) years of age or older.
PLACES PROVIDED OR SET APART FOR NUDITY: Enclosed single-sex public restrooms,
enclosed single-sex functional shower, locker and/or dressing room facilities,
enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for sleeping
accommodations, doctors' offices, portions of hospitals, and similar places in
which nudity or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected outside of the
home and the sphere of privacy constitutionally protected therein. This term
shall not be deemed to include places where a person's conduct of being nude is
used for his or her profit or where being nude is used for the promotion of
business or is otherwise commercially exploited.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. Public places include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments (whether for-profit or not-for-profit and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement), bottle clubs, hotels, motels, restaurants, nightclubs, country
clubs, cabarets, and meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social,
fraternal or similar organization. Premises, or portions thereof such as hotel
rooms, used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in
nature, shall not be deemed to be a public place. (Ord. 623, 8-12-1996)
6-6-4: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
In addition and supplemental to the findings and determinations contained in
the "Whereas" provisions of Ordinance 623 which are incorporated by reference
into this Section, it is hereby found by the Board, acting in its legislative
capacity for the purpose of regulating the conduct of appearing nude in public
places and for the purpose of regulating nudity and other conduct in
establishments dealing in alcoholic beverages, that, considering what has
happened in other communities, the acts prohibited in Section
6-6-5 of this Chapter encourage or create the potential for the conduct of
prostitution, attempted rape, rape, and assault in and around establishments
dealing in alcoholic beverages; that actual and simulated nudity and sexual
conduct, coupled with the consumption of alcoholic beverages in public places,
begets and has the potential for begetting undesirable and unlawful behavior;
that sexual, lewd, lascivious, and salacious conduct among patrons and
employees within establishments dealing in alcoholic beverages results in
violation of law and creates dangers to the health, safety, morals, and welfare
of the public and those who engage in such conduct; and, it is the intent of
Section
6-6-5 of this Chapter to specifically prohibit nudity, gross sexuality and the
simulation thereof in establishments dealing in alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 623,
8-12-1996)
6-6-5: NUDITY, SEXUAL CONDUCT PROHIBITED IN ESTABLISHMENTS DEALING IN ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES:
The following prohibitions and criteria shall apply within existing and/or
newly created establishments dealing in alcoholic beverages and the curtilages
thereof:
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, intentionally or recklessly appear, or
cause another person to appear, nude or expose to public view his or her
genitals, pubic area, vulva, or buttocks, or any simulation thereof.
   (B)   No female person shall knowingly, intentionally or recklessly expose,
or cause another female person to expose her breasts or any simulation thereof
to public view.
   (C)   No person or entity maintaining, owning, or operating an establishment
dealing in alcoholic beverages shall encourage, allow or permit any person to
appear nude or to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic area, vulva,
anus, or any portion of the buttocks or simulation thereof. This Section shall
be violated if any portion of the buttocks is visible from any vantage point.
   (D)   No person or entity maintaining, owning, or operating an establishment
dealing in alcoholic beverages shall encourage, allow or permit any female
person to expose her breasts or any simulation thereof to public view.
   (E)   No person shall engage in and no person or entity maintaining, owning,
or operating an establishment dealing in alcoholic beverages shall encourage,
allow or permit any sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, flagellation, lap dancing, straddle dancing, any sexual act which
is prohibited by law, touching, caressing, or fondling of the breasts,
buttocks, anus, or genitals, or the simulation thereof.
   (F)   The prohibitions of this Section shall not apply when a person appears
nude in a place provided or set apart for nudity provided: 1) such person is
nude for the sole purpose of performing the legal function(s) that is
customarily intended to be performed within such place provided or set apart
for nudity and 2) such person is not nude for the purpose of obtaining money or
other financial gain for such person or for another person or entity.
   (G)   Each female person may determine which one-fourth (1/4) of her breast
surface area (see definition of "breast" in Section
6-6-3 of this Chapter) contiguous to and containing the areola is to be
covered.
   (H)   This Section shall not be deemed to address photographs, movies, video
presentations, or other nonlive performances. (Ord. 623, 8-12-1996)
6-6-6: NUDITY PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly, intentionally or recklessly
appear, or cause another person to appear, nude in a public place or in any
other place which is readily visible to the public, except as provided in
Section
6-6-7 of this Chapter. It shall also be unlawful for any person or entity
maintaining, owning, or operating any public place or establishment to
encourage, suffer or allow any person to appear nude in such public place,
except as provided in Section
6-6-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 623, 8-12-1996)
6-6-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The prohibitions of Section
6-6-6 of this Chapter shall not apply:
   (A)   When a person appears nude in a place provided or set apart for nudity
provided: 1) such person is nude for the sole purpose of performing the legal
function(s) that is customarily intended to be performed within such place
provided or set apart for nudity and 2) such person is not nude for the purpose
of obtaining money or other financial gain for such person or for another
person or entity, or
   (B)   When the conduct of being nude cannot legally be prohibited by this
Chapter: 1) because it constitutes a part of a bona fide live communication,
demonstration or performance by a person wherein such nudity is expressive
conduct incidental to and necessary for the conveyance or communication of a
genuine message or public expression and is not a mere guise or pretense
utilized to exploit the conduct of being nude for profit or commercial gain
(see, for instance, Board of County Commissioners v. Dexterhouse, 348 So.2d 916
(Fla. 2nd DCA 1977)) and as such is protected by the United States or Illinois
Constitution or 2) because it is otherwise protected by the United States or
Illinois Constitution.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, a mother may
breast feed her baby in any location, public or private, where the mother is
otherwise, authorized to be, irrespective of whether the nipple of the mother's
breast is uncovered during or incidental to the breast-feeding. (Ord. 623, 8-
12-1996)
6-6-8: TERRITORY EMBRACED:
All territory within the legal boundaries of incorporated Village of North
Pekin shall be embraced by the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 623, 8-12-
1996)
6-6-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
prosecuted in the same manner as misdemeanors are prosecuted. Such violations
shall be prosecuted in the name of the State of Illinois in a court having
jurisdiction of misdemeanors by the prosecuting attorney thereof and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County jail not to exceed sixty (60) days
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each incident or separate occurrence of
an act that violates this Chapter shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord.
623, 8-12-1996)
6-6-10: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
In addition to the procedures provided herein, establishments dealing in
alcoholic beverages that are not in conformity with these requirements shall be
subject to appropriate civil action in the court of appropriate jurisdiction
for abatement. (Ord. 623, 8-12-1996)
6-6-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word or provision of this
Chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, whether for substantive, procedural, or any other
reason, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Chapter. (Ord. 623, 8-12-1996)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
LITTER
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Litter; Prohibition And Penalties
7-1-3: Owner To Maintain Premises Free Of Litter
7-1-3A: Placement And Storage Of Containers And Dumpsters
7-1-4: Penalties
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish" as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the Village, owned or used by the Village and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid
market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, including, but not limited to, paper, wrappings,
cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding,
crockery, mattresses, discarded furniture and appliances, and similar
materials. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 584, 11-23-1992)
7-1-2: LITTER; PROHIBITION AND PENALTIES:
No person shall:
   (A)   Litter In Public Places: Throw or deposit litter in or upon any
street, sidewalk or other public place within the Village except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in official
Village dumps.
   (B)   Litter Thrown By Persons In Vehicles: While a driver or passenger in a
vehicle, throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the Village, or upon private property.
   (C)   Dropping Litter From Aircraft: While in an aircraft, throw out, drop
or deposit within the Village any litter, handbill or any other object.
   (D)   Litter In Parks: Throw or deposit litter in any park within the
Village except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of
the park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are
not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   (E)   Truckloads Causing Litter: Drive or move any truck or other vehicle
within the Village unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any
street, alley or other public place.
   (F)   Litter On Private Property: Throw or deposit litter on any private
property within the Village, whether owned by such person or not. Such person
in control of private property shall maintain authorized private receptacles
for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public
place or upon private property.
   (G)   Litter On Vacant Lots: Throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant
private property within the village whether owned by such person or not. (1971
Code)
   (H)   Violation: Violation of any provision of this section shall be
punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
7-1-3: OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER:
The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter. Provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection. (1971 Code)
7-1-3A: PLACEMENT AND STORAGE OF CONTAINERS AND DUMPSTERS:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, containers and
dumpsters shall at all times be stored and kept within side and rear lot lines
of any premises owned or occupied by the person or persons who own or use such
containers and dumpsters, and containers and dumpsters shall further be stored
and kept behind the front (and side for corner lots) setback lines established
for any structure on such premises.
   (B)   For garbage collection purposes only, containers and dumpsters and
materials described in subsection (C) of this section, may be placed in the
parkway area in front of any premises at or near the curb line no sooner than
the day preceding the regularly scheduled garbage collection day for such
premises and shall be removed no later than the day next following such
regularly scheduled garbage collection day.
   (C)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, no privately
owned container or dumpster shall be stored or kept in or on any street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public place or public property within the village.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the owner of the
container or dumpster, occupant, tenant, or members of their families, or a
scavenger employed or licensed by the village, or the owner's agent, employees,
or servant, to deposit any article, substance, or thing in any container or
dumpster, or to remove, displace, injure, deface, destroy, uncover, or in any
manner disturb such container or dumpster, or any container or dumpster that is
placed at any curb line for collection.
   (E)   Any litter, garbage, refuse, or rubbish not placed in a container or
dumpster shall, for garbage collection purposes, be placed in such other secure
bag or container, and shall be placed for collection no sooner than the day
preceding the regularly scheduled garbage collection day for such premises.
(Ord. 583, 11-23-1992)
7-1-4: PENALTIES:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation is continued or permitted
to continue shall constitute a separate offense, and shall be punishable as
such. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CESSPOOLS; PRIVIES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Construction To Comply With Regulations
7-2-2: Maintenance Of Privy Near Other Buildings
7-2-3: Privies In Places Of Human Habitation
7-2-4: Watertight Cesspool Required
7-2-5: Contents Not To Become Offensive
7-2-6: Abatement Of Offensive Contents
7-2-7: Overflowing
7-2-8: Removal; Permit Required
7-2-9: Disinfection
7-2-10: Depositing Garbage In Wells
7-2-11: Wells And Cisterns To Be Adequately Covered
7-2-12: Cistern Overflow Pipes
7-2-13: Privies Prohibited
7-2-14: Privies To Be Demolished
7-2-1: CONSTRUCTION TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS:
No vault, privy, catch basin or cesspool shall hereafter be constructed or
rebuilt in the Village except in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter
and the regulations of the Board of Health. (1971 Code)
7-2-2: MAINTENANCE OF PRIVY NEAR OTHER BUILDINGS:
It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to
erect or maintain any privy within forty feet (40') of any street, dwelling,
ship, school, factory, church or public hall, or within one hundred feet (100')
of any well, unless the same is furnished with a substantial vault, six feet
(6') deep and made tight so that the contents cannot escape therefrom and is
sufficiently secured and enclosed. (1971 Code)
7-2-3: PRIVIES IN PLACES OF HUMAN HABITATION:
It shall be unlawful to have the general privy accommodations of any place of
human habitation within any such place of habitation, or under any sidewalk
adjacent thereto. (1971 Code)
7-2-4: WATERTIGHT CESSPOOL REQUIRED:
All cesspools shall be watertight. (1971 Code)
7-2-5: CONTENTS NOT TO BECOME OFFENSIVE:
The contents of any tub, or of any receptacle, cesspool, privy, catch basin,
vault, sink, water closet, cistern or any thing in any room excavation, vat,
building, premises or place shall not be allowed to become a nuisance or
offensive, so as to be dangerous or prejudicial to health. (1971 Code)
7-2-6: ABATEMENT OF OFFENSIVE CONTENTS:
All privies or catch basins, any part of the contents of which are above the
surface, or within two feet (2') of the surface of the earth, and all other
privies or catch basins that are foul, omitting smells and odors that are
prejudicial to the public health, are hereby declared nuisances, and the Health
Officer shall have the power to abate the same, as provided in Section
6-3-3-1 of this Code. (1971 Code)
7-2-7: OVERFLOWING:
No person shall draw off or allow to run off onto any ground, street or place
of the Village the contents or any part thereof, of any vault, cistern,
cesspool or catch basin; nor shall any owner, tenant or occupant of any
building to which any vault, catch basin, privy or cesspool shall appertain or
be attached permit the contents, or any part thereof, to flow therefrom or to
rise within two feet (2') of any part of the top, or such contents to become
offensive; nor shall any privy or any other structure mentioned in this Section
be filled with or covered with dirt, until its filthy contents shall be
emptied. (1971 Code)
7-2-8: REMOVAL; PERMIT REQUIRED:
The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or premises within the Village
shall not cause or permit any part of the contents of any privy, vault, catch
basin or cesspool over which he has control to be removed, except according to
a permit issued by the Health Officer and subject to any rules of the Board of
Health for removing the same. (1971 Code)
7-2-9: DISINFECTION:
All privies, catch basins, vaults and cesspools, when cleaned, shall be
disinfected with freshly burned lime, and the work of such disinfection shall
be done by the person removing such contents. (1971 Code)
7-2-10: DEPOSITING GARBAGE IN WELLS:
No person shall throw into or deposit in any well, vault, sink, privy, catch
basin, or cesspool any offal, ashes, meat, fish, garbage, or any other
substance, nor shall any slops or kitchen waste be allowed to run into any well
or privy without regard to whether such well, vault, sink, privy, catch basin,
or cesspool is presently in use or is abandoned or not in use by its owner.
(Ord. 253, 4-8-1974)
7-2-11: WELLS AND CISTERNS TO BE ADEQUATELY COVERED:
The owner or occupant of any dwelling, building or other structure within the
Village is hereby required to place and maintain suitable coverings over all
wells or cisterns outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or
within any unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or structure, that is
accessible to children. (1971 Code)
7-2-12: CISTERN OVERFLOW PIPES:
No cistern used for the collection and storage of rainwater from roofs shall
have its overflow pipes directly connected with any sewer. Wherever an overflow
pipe is provided for such cistern, such pipe shall lead to an area or gutter
and shall have its outlet protected with a suitable metal screen. (1971 Code)
7-2-13: PRIVIES PROHIBITED:
No permit to construct a privy upon property served by the sanitary sewer of
the Village shall be issued to any person. (1971 Code)
7-2-14: PRIVIES TO BE DEMOLISHED:
Within six (6) months of the installation of a State-approved septic system or
sanitary sewer system capable of serving the property upon which any privy is
located, such privy shall be demolished and filled in. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Sale, Use And Possession Of Tobacco Products
7-3-3: Enforcement
7-3-4: Penalties
7-3-5: Severability
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
POSSESSION: To have upon one's person or have in close proximity or in one's
control.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco (which means tobacco in
any form which is suitable for dipping and/or chewing), or tobacco in any form.
(Ord. 634, 7-14-1997)
7-3-2: SALE, USE AND POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   (A)   Sale To And Use Of Tobacco Products By A Minor: It shall be unlawful
for any person, whether acting individually, or as an owner, officer, employee
or agent of or on behalf of any person, firm, or corporation to sell, buy for,
distribute samples of, furnish, exchange or give away any tobacco product in
any form to any individual under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   (B)   Possession Of Tobacco Products By A Minor: No individual under
eighteen (18) years of age shall have in his or her possession any tobacco
product in any of its forms. It shall not be a violation of this section for
any such person to have in his or her possession tobacco products while in the
presence of his or her parents or legal guardian, or in the performance of a
religious ceremony or while participating in any theatrical performance where
possession of a tobacco product is necessary. (Ord. 634, 7-14-1997)
7-3-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The observation of a violation of subsection
7-3-2(B) of this chapter shall not constitute the sole reason for law
enforcement authorities to stop a motor vehicle in which an alleged offender is
a driver or passenger. (Ord. 634, 7-14-1997)
7-3-4: PENALTIES:
   (A)   A violation of subsection
7-3-2(A) of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as established in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   (B)   A violation of subsection
7-3-2(B) of this chapter may be punishable by a fine as established in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to or in lieu of a fine or any other penalty
assessed upon a finding of guilt, admission of guilt or admission of the
commission of a first or second violation of subsection
7-3-2(B) of this chapter a final disposition may include community service,
education alternatives or any similar program authorized by the village board.
However, any nonfine disposition must be successfully completed by the offender
as deemed appropriate by the village board or a fine shall be assessed pursuant
to subsection
7-3-2(A) of this chapter. (Ord. 634, 7-14-1997; amd. Ord. 817, 5-14-2007)
7-3-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause or provision of this chapter or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter or the application of such
sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions to persons or circumstances other
than those to which it is held invalid shall not be affected hereby. (Ord. 634,
7-14-1997)
CHAPTER 4
GROUND WATER USE FOR POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Use Of Ground Water As Potable Water Supply Prohibited
7-4-3: Memorandum Of Understanding
7-4-4: Penalties
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods. (Ord. 771, 9-27-2004)
7-4-2: USE OF GROUND WATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED:
Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date hereof,
the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply ground water from within
the corporate limits of the village of North Pekin in the area described below,
by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby
prohibited, except at points of withdrawal by the village of North Pekin.
The area prohibited is as described as follows:
Bounded on the north by the southern boundary of the former Amoco Oil Company
petroleum storage terminal;
Bounded on the east by Main Street;
Bounded on the west by the right of way for the Peoria and Pekin Union
Railroad; and
Bounded on the south by Market Street, Forest Drive, Glen Lane, and Plaines
Street. (Ord. 771, 9-27-2004)
7-4-3: MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING:
The mayor of the village of North Pekin is hereby authorized and directed to
enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Illinois environmental
protection agency (Illinois EPA), in which the village of North Pekin assumes
responsibility for tracking remediated sites, notifying the Illinois EPA of
changes to this chapter, and taking certain precautions when siting public
potable water supply wells. (Ord. 771, 9-27-2004)
7-4-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 771, 9-27-
2004)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS; STREETS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Permit Required
8-1-2: Construction Of Sidewalks
8-1-3: Material
8-1-4: Dangerous Walks
8-1-5: Concrete Sidewalks
8-1-6: Private Construction; Report
8-1-7: Obstructions
8-1-8: Barricades
8-1-9: Excavations
8-1-10: Moving Buildings
8-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or lay any sidewalk upon any
of the streets and alleys in the Village without first having obtained
permission from the President and Board of Trustees to construct or lay the
same, according to the provisions hereof. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-1-2: CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS:
When any person directly interested shall make application to the President and
Board of Trustees for the construction of any sidewalk upon any of the streets
of the Village, the President and Board may order the construction of the same
under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets, of such material, and
such width as they may direct. The cost of the material and the expense
incurred in the construction of such sidewalk shall be paid by the party
applying for the same, unless otherwise ordered by the President and Board;
provided that when the party applying for such sidewalk shall desire the same
to be over five feet (5') in width, the President and Board may so order, if
the party applying therefor shall agree to pay all necessary expense incurred
thereby, and enter into an obligation to keep such additional width of sidewalk
in good condition and repair, without any expense to the Village so long as
said sidewalk shall remain in use, and well and truly keep said Village free
from all harm, damages and costs of suits, actions, judgments and executions
that shall or may at any time arise, come or be brought against the Village on
account of any accident that may occur to any person by reason of said portion
of said sidewalk being out of repair or in a dangerous condition at any time
hereafter. (Ord. 691, 8-28-2000)
8-1-3: MATERIAL:
All sidewalks hereafter constructed in any portion of the Village shall be
composed of concrete and shall be of such width as shall be determined by
resolution of the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-1-4: DANGEROUS WALKS:
Whenever it is brought to the notice of the President of the Village or to the
Superintendent of Streets, that any sidewalk or part thereof in the Village has
become dangerous to the public safety, he shall cause the same to be
immediately repaired or removed and report such action to the next meeting of
the Board. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-1-5: CONCRETE SIDEWALKS:
All concrete sidewalks hereafter constructed in the Village shall be in
accordance with the specifications furnished by the Clerk as furnished by the
Board of Trustees, and when any person shall enter into any contract for the
construction of concrete sidewalks within the Village, before entering upon the
performance of the same, he shall file with the Clerk a bond in the penal sum
of two hundred dollars ($200.00) with good and sufficient security, to be
approved by the Clerk, conditioned that such sidewalk shall be constructed in
accordance with the plans and specifications furnished by the Clerk, and that
such sidewalks shall be by him kept in good condition and repair for the period
of one year after the completion thereof. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-1-6: PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION; REPORT:
When any person shall obtain permission to construct any sidewalk within the
Village, as hereinbefore provided, he shall construct the same under the
direction and supervision of the Street and Alley Committee, and according to
the plans and specifications furnished him by the Clerk, and when such sidewalk
is completed he shall apply to the Street and Alley Committee for their
acceptance of the same, and if the Street and Alley Committee shall refuse to
accept the same, he shall report to the Board of Trustees the amount of
sidewalk so constructed, the material composing the same, and the manner in
which it has been constructed, for their acceptance or rejection, and if the
President and Board of Trustees refuse to accept the same, he shall proceed at
once to rebuild it according to the plans and specifications furnished by the
Clerk. If he shall refuse or neglect to rebuild such sidewalk as herein
provided, and such sidewalk is in a dangerous condition or constructed contrary
to any of the provisions of this Code relating to sidewalks, the Superintendent
of Streets shall remove or rebuild the same as the President and Board of
Trustees may direct. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-1-7: OBSTRUCTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or have or cause to be
placed any obstruction in or upon any sidewalk within the Village except as
authorized by any of the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-1-8: BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, change or alter any barricade or
sign which has been placed upon any street or other place in the Village by the
Village, its officers or employees, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
drive or operate any motor vehicle or any other type of a vehicle on any street
or any other place in the Village, which street or place has been closed for
traffic or for any person to walk or go upon any street or to lead or drive any
horse or other animal upon any street or place within the Village which has
been closed for traffic. (Ord. 60, 11-7-1956)
8-1-9: EXCAVATIONS:
No person not authorized by the President of the Board of Trustees of the
Village shall make any excavations or do any plowing in any street or alley or
public grounds in the Village at any time. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-1-10: MOVING BUILDINGS:
No person shall remove or cause to be removed, any building through or along
any street or alley in the Village without permission of the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village first obtained therefor. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
CHAPTER 2
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Duty Of Railroad Companies
8-2-2: Notice In Writing
8-2-3: Penalty For Failure To Comply
8-2-4: Failure To Keep Light And Watchman
8-2-5: Obstructing Streets
8-2-6: Blowing Whistle Prohibited
8-2-7: Speed Of Trains
8-2-8: Ringing Bell; Headlights
8-2-9: Enforcement
8-2-10: New Tracks Laid Prohibited
8-2-11: Duty Of Chief Of Police
8-2-1: DUTY OF RAILROAD COMPANIES:
It shall be the duty of all railroad companies or corporations whose tracks now
or may hereafter enter or pass through the corporate limits of the Village, to
raise or lower their respective tracks to conform to any grade which is or may
be established by the President and Board of Trustees, of any street, avenue or
alley upon or through which said railroad tracks may run, and where such tracts
run lengthwise of any street, avenue or alley to keep the same on a level with
the street or alley surface, so that such tracks may be conveniently crossed at
any place on such street or alley; and to make and keep open and in repair
their respective railroad tracks so that the natural drainage of the adjacent
property shall not be impeded; and to construct and keep in repair suitable and
convenient crossings at the intersections of their said tracks with any street,
avenue or alley in the Village, and to so construct and lay down their tracks
so as to interfere as little as possible with ordinary travel upon or over the
streets, avenues or alleys occupied or used by them. Any such railroad company
or corporation failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the
foregoing requirements of this Section, after reasonable notice to do so in
writing by the Superintendent of Streets or other Village officer or chairman
of the Committee on Railroads, shall be punished as in this Code provided for
violation hereof, and the recovery of one fine shall be no bar to future
prosecutions for a like failure or neglect. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-2-2: NOTICE IN WRITING:
Whenever any street crossing, culvert or bridge shall be needed upon the line
of any railroad within the Village or shall need to be altered or repaired, and
the same shall have been ordered by the President and Board of Trustees, it
shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Streets to give to the railroad
company notice in writing of the work to be done and place where required; and
every railroad company or corporation neglecting or refusing to construct,
alter or repair any such crossing, culvert or bridge within thirty (30) days,
after the service of said notice, shall thereafter be deemed in violation of
this Section. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-2-3: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY:
In case of the failure or refusal of any railroad company or corporation to
construct or repair any crossing, culvert or bridge, when duly notified so to
do, as provided hereinabove, the President and Board of Trustees may order such
crossing, culvert or bridge to be constructed, altered or repaired at the
expense of the Village, and such railroad company shall thereupon be liable to
the Village in an action of debt for the cost and expense thereof. (Ord. 8, 8-
6-1947)
8-2-4: FAILURE TO KEEP LIGHT AND WATCHMAN:
Whenever any railroad company or corporation shall in pursuance of a resolution
or order of the President and Board of Trustees, be notified to keep a
conspicuous light of any kind at any point on its track crossed or intersected
by any street or avenue of the Village, or to keep a watchman or flagman at any
such point, for the protection of persons or property against injury at such
crossing, it shall be the duty of such railroad company or corporation, at its
own expense, to place or keep such light as required or to station and retain
such flagman, whose duty it shall be at all times to signal and warn persons
traveling in the direction of the railroad crossing, when there is danger from
the approach of locomotive engines and trains. Any railroad company or
corporation failing or refusing to comply with either of the requirements of
this Section, after being duly notified as aforesaid in writing by the
Superintendent of Streets or the marshal, shall thereafter be liable to a fine
as provided in this Code, and every day of such failure or refusal to comply
shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-2-5: OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
No railroad company, railroad engineer, train conductor or other person shall
obstruct or impede any street, alley, sidewalk crossing or other thoroughfare
of the Village by stopping any train thereon or by leaving any locomotive
engine, car or cars thereon for a longer period of time than ten (10)
consecutive minutes; provided, that where any such obstruction is the result of
some unavoidable accident or emergency beyond the control of such company or
agents, this Section shall not apply. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-2-6: BLOWING WHISTLE PROHIBITED:
No railroad engineer, fireman or other person shall sound the whistle of any
locomotive engine within the Village, except necessary brake signals and such
as may be absolutely necessary to avoid accidents. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-2-7: SPEED OF TRAINS:
No railroad company or conductor, engineer or other employee of such company
managing or controlling any locomotive engine, car or train upon any railroad
track, shall run or permit to run within the limits of the Village any
passenger train or car at a greater rate of speed than fifteen (15) miles per
hour, nor any freight train or car at a greater rate of speed than ten (10)
miles per hour. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-2-8: RINGING OF BELL; HEADLIGHTS:
The bell of each locomotive engine shall be rung continually while running upon
any railroad track within the Village; and every locomotive engine, car or
train of cars running in the night on any railroad track in the Village shall
have and keep a bright and conspicuous light at the forward end of such
locomotive engine, car or train of cars. If such engine or train shall be
backing up, it shall have a conspicuous light at the rear of the engine or
train, so as to show the direction in which the same is moving. (Ord. 8, 8-6-
1947)
8-2-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The Superintendent of Streets shall execute and have enforced all orders of the
Committee on Railroads in reference to the keeping in repair of any street
crossing, sidewalk, bridge or culvert, or any other necessary improvement along
any street, avenue or alley within the Village which is occupied wholly or in
part by any railroad running into or through the Village. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
8-2-10: NEW TRACKS LAID PROHIBITED:
From and after the passage of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
railroad company to make or lay down any new or other main track, side track or
switch track of such railroad through or upon, or across any street or alley of
the Village, or to operate the same over or across the same without first
having obtained the permission for so laying such main or side track by
petition to the President and Board of Trustees for the privilege of laying
such main switch or side track on and over or across such streets or alleys at
some regular meeting of the Board of Trustees, which petition therefor shall
particularly set forth the streets, alleys and lots on and across which such
main switch or side track is proposed to be constructed and operated. (Ord. 8,
8-6-1947)
8-2-11: DUTY OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police of the Village to arrest and
prevent any or all persons and railroad companies from laying any main, switch
or side track or tracks in the limits of the Village without first having
obtained the permission so to do as provided in Section
8-2-10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 8, 8-6-1947)
CHAPTER 3
TREES; SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
8-3-1: Planting
8-3-2: Advertisements; Notices
8-3-3: Dangerous Trees
8-3-4: Wires
8-3-5: Excavations
8-3-6: Dutch Elm Disease
8-3-7: Poison Ivy, Etc.
8-3-1: PLANTING:
It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public place, street or
parkway within the Village, including those portions of streets or roadways not
used for traffic purposes and lying between the adjacent property line and the
curb line. (1971 Code)
8-3-2: ADVERTISEMENTS; NOTICES:
It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or
shrub now growing in any such public place, street or parkway. (1971 Code)
8-3-3: DANGEROUS TREES:
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the Village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the
premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which
such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Public Works may trim any such tree or shrub or
remove any such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to
traffic or passage shall be done away with. (1971 Code; amd. 1044, 2-8-2021)
8-3-4: WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub in any
public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of the
Board of Trustees. Any person who maintains poles and wires in the streets,
alleys or other public place shall, in the absence of provision in the
franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away
from any trees and shrubs in such places so far as may be possible, and shall
keep all such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works, so that no
injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and trees by
their contact. (1971 Code)
8-3-5: EXCAVATIONS:
In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(1971 Code)
8-3-6: DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
   (A)   Trees of all species and varieties of elms, zelkeva and planera
affected with the fungus Ceratosteomella ulmi, as determined by laboratory
analysis, are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning property whereon a public
nuisance, as described above, is situated to possess, keep or preserve such
nuisance.
   (C)   The President shall give to the owner of premises where a public
nuisance described in this Section is found, written notice of the existence of
such nuisance, requiring the removal and burning of the same within thirty (30)
days following such notice, such removal and burning to be done under the
direction and supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works. (1971 Code)
8-3-7: POISON IVY, ETC.:
No owner, lessee or occupant, or agent, servant or employee of such owner,
lessee or occupant, being in control of any lot, piece or parcel of land within
the Village shall knowingly allow, permit or maintain on any such lot, piece or
parcel of land any growth of poison ivy, marijuana, or other noxious weed or
plant, whereby the health of the public or any person lawfully upon or passing
by such lot, piece or parcel of land may be endangered, under a penalty of not
less than five dollars ($5.00) for each day such poison ivy or other noxious
weed aforesaid shall be allowed or permitted to be or remain growing upon any
such lot, piece or parcel of land after notice by the Health Officer to such
owner, lessee or occupant, or to such agent, servant or employee to remove,
eradicate or destroy the same.
Whenever the owner or person in control of any such premises fails to remove or
destroy such poison ivy, marijuana, etc., within a period of five (5) days
after receipt of notice to so remove, the Health Officer shall cause such
poison ivy, etc., to be destroyed, and any expense incurred by the Village in
so doing, in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per hour, shall be a lien
upon the real estate affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances,
except tax liens. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Department Established
8-4-2: Application For Water Service
8-4-3: Obstruct Access Prohibited
8-4-4: Turning Water On
8-4-5: Water Meters
8-4-6: Faulty Meters
8-4-7: Village Not Liable
8-4-8: Access To Premises
8-4-9: Water Rates
8-4-10: Water Bills
8-4-11: Water For Building Or Construction Purposes
8-4-12: Rules And Regulations
8-4-13: Shutting Off Water
8-4-14: Connection To Separate Premises
8-4-15: Water For Fountains, Lawn Sprinkling And Pools
8-4-15-1: Water Hydrant Usage
8-4-16: Meter For Multiple Dwellings
8-4-17: Tampering With Meters; Appurtenances
8-4-18: Unlawful Use Of Water
8-4-19: Connection Required
8-4-20: Water System Connection Charge
8-4-21: Delinquent Charges; Lien
8-4-22: Affidavit; Recording, Notice To Consumer
8-4-23: Enforcement
8-4-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an executive department of the Village to be known
as the Combined Waterworks and Sewage Department, and there shall be placed in
charge of the department, the Superintendent of Public Works who may appoint
employees to serve as Superintendents of Waterworks and Sewers, respectively.
The Superintendents shall perform duties under the direction of the
Superintendent of Public Works and the President and the Board of Trustees from
time to time determined. (Ord. 37)
8-4-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
   (A)   No water shall be turned on for use in or on any premises until an
application has been made for that purpose and filed with the Clerk of the
Village stating the purpose for which the water is to be used.
   (B)   If the premises for which the application is made is residential, and
occupied by the owner of the property, the owner shall deposit with his
application the sum of sixty dollars ($60.00) before water service is provided.
Such deposit shall be held by the Village during the first year after payment
as security for the payment of the cost of water used on the premises and may
be applied to any outstanding balance if a default in payment of a water bill
occurs. Upon the expiration of the one year period, and upon request by the
owner thereof, said security deposit shall be refunded to the owner if the
owner's payments for water service are current and if the owner continues to
reside on the premises.
   (C)   If the premises for which the application is made is residential, and
not occupied by the owner of the property, the tenant or other occupant of the
premises shall be responsible for the payment of a sixty dollar ($60.00)
deposit to be paid at the time of application. Such deposit shall be held by
the Village during the first year after payment as security for the payment of
the cost of water used on the premises and may be applied to any outstanding
balance if a default in payment of a water bill occurs. Said deposit shall be
refunded only upon the termination of such an applicant's occupancy of the
premises, to the extent that the same is not applied to any outstanding balance
owed upon any bill for water service.
   (D)   If the premises for which the application is made is commercial, and
occupied by the owner of the property, the owner shall deposit with his
application the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) before water service
is provided. Such deposit shall be held by the Village during the first year
after payment as security for the payment of the cost of water used on the
premises and may be applied to any outstanding balance if a default in payment
of a water bill occurs. Upon the expiration of the one year period, and upon
request by the owner thereof, said security deposit shall be refunded to the
owner if the owner's payments for water service are current and if the owner
continues to occupy the premises.
   (E)   If the premises for which the application is made is commercial, and
not occupied by the owner of the property, the tenant or other occupant of the
premises shall be responsible for the payment of a one hundred fifty dollar
($150.00) deposit to be paid at the time of application. Such deposit shall be
held by the Village during the first year after payment as security for the
payment of the cost of water used on the premises and may be applied to any
outstanding balance if a default in payment of a water bill occurs. Said
deposit shall be refunded only upon the termination of such an applicant's
occupancy of the premises, to the extent that the same is not applied to any
outstanding balance owed upon any bill for water service.
   (F)   If a resident of the Village, whether he be a property owner, tenant
or otherwise, moves from one residence in the Village to another residence in
the Village, the above referenced deposit, if not previously refunded, may
serve as the deposit to and for each subsequent residence, provided that the
water bill for the prior residence is first paid in full. If such a water
deposit has been previously refunded, then upon moving to a subsequent
residence, a deposit shall be made in accordance with this section.
   (G)   If an owner of property within the Village has good credit,
established to the satisfaction of the Village Board of Trustees, and owns
rental property within the Village, water service may be connected to such
rental property without deposit provided that the water service and billing
shall be in the name of the owner and the owner shall be personally responsible
for the payment of all water bills incurred.
   (H)   Prior to approving any application for water service, all outstanding
water bills, with respect to premises for which an application is made must
first be paid in full, either from any deposit so made with respect to the
premises, or if the same is not sufficient, by the applicant, or other persons
responsible for incurring said outstanding bill.
   (I)   No water service will be activated upon any premises without the
resident or other occupant thereof being present at the time of activation.
(Ord. 1003, 11-14-2016)
8-4-3: OBSTRUCT ACCESS PROHIBITED:
No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any stopcock, hydrant or
valve or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any street, alley,
public ground or place connected with or part of said water system, nor pile or
place any lumber, brick or building material or other article, thing or
hindrance whatsoever within twelve feet (12') of the same, or so as to in any
manner hinder, delay or obstruct the members of the Fire Department in reaching
same. It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to interfere with or
obstruct the flow, retention, storage or authorized use of water in the water
system, reservoir or plant, or any part thereof, or to injure, deface, remove
or displace any water main, hydrant, service pipe, water meter, shut-off box,
public fountain, valve, engine or building connected with said water system, or
plant, or to cause, suffer or permit any of said things to be done. (Ord. 37)
8-4-4: TURNING WATER ON:
No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire hydrant or
service cock or use water therefrom when so turned on, and the person so using
or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall be liable to pay for the same.
(Ord. 37)
8-4-5: WATER METERS:
   (A)   All water consumers who are supplied water by the Village shall have
water supplied through meters only and such consumers shall pay for the water
at the rates and in the manner hereinafter specified.
   (B)   The Water Department shall also grant to residents the use of outside
water meters on exterior water faucets under the following conditions:
      1.   An annual application in the form as supplied by the Water
Department shall be executed on an annual basis.
      2.   All costs for material and labor associated with the installation of
such a meter shall be the responsibility of the water user.
      3.   The "Rockwell Water Meter" brand only shall be utilized as an
outside water meter. (Available at Sidener's Water Supply, Washington,
Illinois; and Water Products, Bloomington, Illinois.)
      4.   Each outside water meter so connected shall be read, and the reading
thereon recorded by the Water Department prior to approval by the Water
Department of use of the meter. Each meter shall be read by the Water
Department on October 1 of each year and from said reading, charges for sewer
service shall be deducted from the next succeeding water billing statement,
provided that none of the water so recorded is discharged into the Village
sewer system. All water used as recorded on said meter shall be charged at the
then prevailing water rate so established by the Village.
      5.   Any wrongful tampering with or violation of Village ordinances or
regulations pertaining to the use of an outside water meter shall result in the
revocation of the right to use the same. (Ord. 473, 8-22-1988)
8-4-6: FAULTY METERS:
Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair, or for any cause
fails promptly to register the water passing through the same, the consumer
shall be charged at the rate shown of the corresponding time of the previous
year under like conditions. If no record of the previous year exists, then it
shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Waterworks to estimate or
determine so far as he can the amount of water consumed during the time such
meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall pay the amount so estimated.
(Ord. 37)
8-4-7: VILLAGE NOT LIABLE:
All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all the water used
hereunder, shall be upon the express condition that the Village shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by
reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with said system or plant, or any part or portion of
said plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewals. (Ord.
37)
8-4-8: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
The Village and its employees shall have ready access to the premises, places
or buildings where meters are located for the purpose of reading, examining,
testing and repairing the same and examining and testing the consumption, use
and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
prevent or obstruct the Village or its duly authorized agent in its duties
hereunder. Every consumer of said water shall take the same upon the conditions
prescribed in this section. (Ord. 37)
8-4-9: WATER RATES:
There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a basic
user rate for water supplied by the public waterworks system of the Village.
Beginning January 1, 2018, a minimum charge of four dollars forty cents ($4.40)
per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of four dollars
seventy three cents ($4.73) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
Beginning January 1, 2019, a minimum charge of four dollars eighty four cents
($4.84) per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of five
dollars twenty cents ($5.20) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
Beginning January 1, 2020, a minimum charge of five dollars thirty two cents
($5.32) per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of five
dollars seventy two cents ($5.72) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
Beginning January 1, 2021, a minimum charge of five dollars eighty five cents
($5.85) per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of six
dollars twenty nine cents ($6.29) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
Beginning January 1, 2022, a minimum charge of six dollars forty three cents
($6.43) per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of six
dollars ninety two cents ($6.92) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
The increase in rate shall be effective as of the dates above and shall be
reflected beginning with the invoices generated on January 1st of each year.
The Village reserves the right to make such reasonable changes in rates and the
conditions herein established and to establish further rules and regulations
from time to time as may be found expedient or necessary. (Ord. 1011, 11-13-
2017)
8-4-10: WATER BILLS:
The consumption of water by each user shall be determined on or about the
fifteenth day of each month by reading the water meter provided for under the
terms of this chapter.
   (A)   Bills for water service at the rates established under the terms of
this chapter, shall be rendered on or about the first day of each month.
   (B)   Bills rendered on or about the first day of each month, shall be due
and payable no later than the fifteenth day of the month in which the bill has
been rendered.
   (C)   If a bill for water service remains unpaid after the fifteenth day of
the month in which the bill was rendered, a service charge for collection in
the amount of ten percent (10%) of the water bill that is due and owing shall
be added to the water bill.
   (D)   If a bill for water service remains unpaid after the thirtieth day of
the month in which the bill was rendered, a service charge for collection in
the amount of an additional ten percent (10%) of the water bill that is due and
owing shall be added to the water bill and, in addition, a five (5) day shutoff
notice shall be sent to the user.
   (E)   If a bill for water service remains unpaid more than five (5) days
after the five (5) day shutoff notice has been sent to the user, then the water
service shall be shut off as provided under the terms of this chapter. (Ord.
517, 9-10-1990)
8-4-11: WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES:
Persons desiring to use Village water for building or construction purposes
shall make application therefor in writing and file the same in the Office of
the Clerk on a form provided for that purpose. Upon a permit being granted,
which permits shall be issued in writing and signed by the Superintendent of
Waterworks, the service pipe shall be carried at the expense of the applicant
to the inside of the curb line, where a service cock and meter shall be placed,
with pipe leading to the surface, and a faucet placed at the end thereof above
said surface. When the building or construction work is completed, the faucet
and meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless permanent connection
hereunder is made. Charge for the use of connecting of meters shall be as
prescribed hereafter by the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 37)
8-4-12: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for the consumers of water and plumbers are
hereby adopted and established:
   (A)   No water shall be furnished or supplied to any consumer for any
purpose whatever, until such consumer shall make application therefor. Such
application shall state the location of the premises to be served and the use
to which the water will be put.
   (B)   No water consumer may supply water to other families or allow them to
take it, except for use on the premises and for the purpose specified in the
application, nor after water is introduced into any building or upon any
premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any tap or
connection with the work upon the premises for alterations, repairs, extensions
or attachments without a written permit therefor to be issued by the
Superintendent of Public Works.
   (C)   Any water consumer may request that service be suspended for a
specified period of time. However, during such suspension of service, the water
consumer shall continue to be charged the minimum charge outlined in section
8-4-9 of this chapter.
   (D)   The Village reserves the right to shut off water at any time in the
mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections with or
extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of the
Village in case of fire; and for restricting the use of the water in case of
deficiency in supply. No claim shall be made against the Village by reason of
breaking of any service pipe or service cock or damage arising from shutting
off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other
connections or repairing any part of the water system, or from failure of the
water supply or by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from
concentration or restricted use of water as above. (Ord. 1019, 8-13-2018)
8-4-13: SHUTTING OFF WATER:
   (A)   For the violation of any of the foregoing rules or for the nonpayment
of water bills, the Village reserves the right to turn off water service in
accordance with the hereinafter provided requirements.
   (B)   Subsequent to the failure to pay any water bill when due, or
subsequent to the violation of any of the provisions as contained in this
chapter, there shall be sent to the offending consumer the following notice
indicating the appropriate violation:
      UTILITY DISCONNECT NOTICE
      REASONS FOR DISCONNECTION
                    Nonpayment of bill.
                    Your meter was found tampered with and you have failed to
pay the estimated backbilling for unmetered consumption plus the cost of
repairing any damage to the meter.
                    Your check was returned by the bank.
                    Other                                       
                                               
                                               
                                               
SERVICE WILL BE DISCONNECTED UNLESS ALL AMOUNTS DUE ARE PAID WITHIN THE NEXT
FIVE (5) BUSINESS DAYS TO:
The Village of North Pekin
Water Department
318 N. Main Street
North Pekin, Illinois 61554
Telephone: (309) 382-3474
Business Hours: 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
IF YOU BELIEVE THAT THERE HAS BEEN AN ERROR IN YOUR BILLING OR THAT YOU HAVE
ALREADY PAID ALL AMOUNTS DUE, OR THAT FOR SOME OTHER REASON THERE IS NO
JUSTIFICATION FOR DISCONNECTING YOUR SERVICE, THEN PROMPTLY CONTACT:
The Village of North Pekin
Water Department
318 N. Main Street
North Pekin, Illinois 61554
Telephone: (309) 382-3474
Business Hours: 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
   (C)   In the event that within the five (5) business day period provided for
in the above referenced notice either all sums due are not paid, or the
differences between the parties are not otherwise resolved, unless prevented
from doing so by an order of court, the Village shall turn off water service to
the offending consumer and all payments theretofore made shall be forfeited. No
further or other notice prior to shutoff of water service shall be given in
addition to the notice above stated.
   (D)   If the water service is disconnected for nonpayment of water bill, or
any other reason, water service will not be reconnected until any and all
outstanding bills are paid in full, together with a turn on fee of thirty
dollars ($30.00), during normal working hours of the Water Department. In the
event that reconnection of water service is requested after normal working
hours, a charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a turn on fee must be paid. For
any service reconnected after normal working hours, the affected water consumer
must meet the Water Department employee in charge of reconnection at the 
Village Hall, and verify to said employee that the proper amounts to cover all
outstanding bills and other costs, together with the turn on fee, is placed in
an envelope by the water consumer and placed in the deposit box. At no time
will Water Department employees handle any monies for water service after
normal working hours. Once a reconnection of water service has occurred, the
water user shall be placed on probation for six (6) months. If another
disconnect occurs during the probationary period, an additional ten dollars
($10.00) will be added to the last disconnect fee.
   (E)   Any member of the Village Board, or the President thereof, is hereby
authorized to contact the Water Department after normal working hours and
request the Water Department to reconnect water service that has been
disconnected; provided, that the provisions as required in the immediately
preceding subsection are complied with. (Ord. 1009, 8-14-2017)
8-4-14: CONNECTION TO SEPARATE PREMISES:
No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into any two (2)
distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks shall be
placed on the outside of such premises along the sidewalk opposite the same,
nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining premises.
(Ord. 37)
8-4-15: WATER FOR FOUNTAINS, LAWN SPRINKLING AND POOLS:
   (A)   Water used for fountains or lawn and garden sprinkling may be utilized
through an outside water faucet meter or through the regular water meter. (Ord.
473, 8-22-1988)
   (B)   Swimming pools may be filled through the use of a water meter provided
by the Water Department. In such an instance, for each filling of a swimming
pool, an application must be made to the Water Department. For each such
filling, applicants will not be charged for sewer service. Applicants
requesting swimming pool water filling service shall be responsible for any
damage or loss to the Village water meter so utilized. (Ord. 547, 8-12-1991;
amd. Ord. 575, 7-13-1992)
   (C)   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains, lawn and
garden sprinkling and pool filling whenever in the opinion of the President and
Board of Trustees the public exigencies require. (Ord. 473, 8-22-1988)
8-4-15-1: WATER HYDRANT USAGE:
Water may be used and extracted directly from water hydrants owned and operated
by the Village under the following conditions:
   (A)   An application in the form as required by the Water Department shall
be filled out by each applicant indicating the complete water use being
requested.
   (B)   A nonrefundable meter rental fee in the amount of twenty five dollars
($25.00) shall be paid at the time of application for the first thirty (30)
days and twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid every thirty (30) days
thereafter that the meter is used.
   (C)   The Village shall furnish a water meter to be attached to the water
hydrant and the applicant shall furnish a water hose attachable to the water
meter.
   (D)   The applicant shall be responsible for any and all damage or loss to
the Village water meter resulting from such use.
   (E)   The applicant shall be charged for the amount of water according to
the meter reading with there being no charge for sewer service if the water
used is not discharged into the sewer system. Billing for such water usage
shall be on a monthly basis; however, if the period of usage is less than a
month, then billing shall occur on the last day of service.
   (F)   The meter must be removed nightly by the applicant. (Ord. 713, 11-26-
2001)
8-4-16: METER FOR MULTIPLE DWELLINGS:
In all cases where one service pipe supplies two (2) or more separate consumers
in a building, one meter may be placed at the service connection for either or
all of the said consumers and the water rent, as registered by such meters,
shall be charged to and be payable by the owner of such premises or building.
(Ord. 37)
8-4-17: TAMPERING WITH METERS; APPURTENANCES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, change or alter
any water meter, valve, pipe, fire hydrant, meter box or any apparatus in
connection with the waterworks system in the village at any time; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to the installing, repairing,
altering or changing of the private plumbing system or fixtures installed
privately on private property, and also shall not apply to pipes leading from
property lines to meter boxes; and it shall be unlawful for any person to turn
on any water valve, meter or water connection for the purpose of obtaining
water service to his property or the property of any other person.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section or doing any of the acts referred to in subsection (A) of this
section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense, and shall also be required to reimburse the village of North Pekin for
all costs, damages and reconnection fees. Each day shall constitute a separate
violation. (Ord. 950, 1-28-2013)
8-4-18: UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to receive and obtain water service on or
for his property or on or for property under his control until said water has
been turned on by the proper official, employee or officer of the village.
(Ord. 44, 1-5-1955)
8-4-19: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
The owner of all houses, buildings or other properties, used for human
occupancy, employment, business, recreation or other purpose within the
purview, abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a water main facility belonging to the
village, is hereby required to connect to such water main in accordance with
the provisions of this code, within one year of either the passage hereof or
the date when such public water main facility is available for use to such
properties mentioned, whichever last occurs, and thereafter all properties
shall be immediately connected with said water main facility; provided,
however, that said water main is available within two hundred feet (200') of
the property line of such property. (1971 Code)
8-4-20: WATER SYSTEM CONNECTION CHARGE:
The following shall be the charges for connecting to the village water system:
   (A)   For residential purposes: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per
connection.
   (B)   For commercial purposes: Four hundred twenty five dollars ($425.00)
per connection.
   (C)   For industrial purposes: Four hundred twenty five dollars ($425.00)
per connection.
Materials and labor for meters, connections and installations shall be in
addition to the connection charges specified above. (Ord. 358, 9-28-1981)
8-4-21: DELINQUENT CHARGES; LIEN:
   (A)   Whenever the charges for water service are not paid within fifteen
(15) days after the rendition of the bill therefor, such charges shall be
deemed and are hereby described to be delinquent, and thereafter the village
shall have a continuing lien upon the premises and real estate upon or for
which water is used or supplied.
   (B)   Every such lien shall, upon compliance with the conditions hereinafter
set forth, become and be prior and superior to the rights and interests of
creditors, encumbrances, purchasers and other parties in interest in the
premises and real estate. (Ord. 411, 9-10-1984)
8-4-22: AFFIDAVIT; RECORDING, NOTICE TO CONSUMER:
   (A)   Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid fifteen (15) days
after it has been rendered, the village clerk shall file with the recorder of
deeds of Tazewell County, state of Illinois, a statement of lien claim verified
by the affidavit of herself or other officer of the village having knowledge of
the facts. The statement shall contain a sufficiently correct description of
the lot, lots or tracts of land to identify the same, the balance due after
allowing all credits, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this
amount, as well as for all charges for water supplied subsequent to the period
covered by the bill.
   (B)   No such lien shall be defeated to the proper amount thereof because of
an error or overcharge on the part of the village, nor shall any such lien be
defeated upon proof that such water was consumed or contracted for by a tenant
of the premises or occupant thereof other than the owner.
   (C)   If the consumer of water whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises, and the village clerk has notice of this fact, notice shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises, if his address be known to the clerk, whenever
such bill remains unpaid for a period of fifteen (15) days after it has been
rendered.
   (D)   The failure of the clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner of such premises to receive such notice,
shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills, as
provided in section
8-4-23 of this chapter. (Ord. 411, 9-10-1984)
8-4-23: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   If payment shall not be made as provided in this chapter, any amount
due for water service when the same becomes due, the village may file or cause
to be filed a complaint in the circuit court of Tazewell County for a
foreclosure of such lien or, upon becoming a defendant in any pending suit
affecting the premises or real estate, an answer to the complaint in the nature
of an intervening petition or a cross complaint, and the village may proceed in
its corporate name to foreclose such lien in like manner and with like effect
as provided by the statutes of the state in foreclosure of mechanic's liens or
other statutory liens. Such suit shall be commenced or answered by cross
complaint filed within two (2) years after the accrual of such water rates,
charges or benefits. Any decree rendered in the court may be enforced and
collected as other decrees or judgments in the same court.
   (B)   The remedy provided in this section for the collection of delinquent
water rates, charges or benefits shall not be construed to abridge or in any
manner interfere with the right and power of the village to enforce a
collection thereof by any other action or as otherwise provided in this
chapter, but the remedy herein provided shall be taken and held as an
additional means to enforce payment of such delinquent water rates, charges or
benefits. (Ord. 411, 9-10-1984)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Office Created
8-5-3: Duties
8-5-4: Workmanship
8-5-5: License Required
8-5-6: Permit
8-5-7: Permit Fee; Liability For Damages
8-5-8: Forfeiture Of Permit Or License
8-5-9: Changes In Plans
8-5-10: Expiration Of Permit
8-5-11: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-5-12: Protection Of Sanitary Sewer System
8-5-13: New Buildings, Cesspools, Septic Or Sewage Tanks
8-5-14: Sewage Treatment Required
8-5-15: Industrial Wastes And Sewage
8-5-16: Notice
8-5-17: Sewer Connections
8-5-18: Quality Of Materials
8-5-19: Joints And Connections
8-5-20: Prohibited Substances
8-5-21: Chemicals
8-5-22: Disturbing, Injuring Or Entering Sewers
8-5-23: Traps And Receiving Tanks
8-5-24: Function Of House Connections And Drains
8-5-25: Independent Connections And Drains
8-5-26: Materials
8-5-27: Laying
8-5-28: Pipes To Be Closed
8-5-29: Backwater
8-5-30: Storm, Surface And Ground Water
8-5-31: Inspections
8-5-32: Notification
8-5-33: Defective Work
8-5-34: Certificate Of Approval
8-5-35: Fees
8-5-36: Condemned Materials
8-5-37: Use Of Sewers Prohibited
8-5-38: Inspection; Right Of Entry
8-5-39: Charges For Use Of Village Sewer
8-5-40: Measurement Of Volume Of Waste Discharged
8-5-41: Injury To Public Sewer System
8-5-42: Interference With Public Sewer System
8-5-43: Violation; Revocation Of Certificate
8-5-44: Fees For Attaching To Sewer System
8-5-45: Delinquent Charges; Lien
8-5-46: Affidavit; Recording, Notice To Consumer
8-5-47: Enforcement
8-5-48: Responsibility For Maintenance And Repair Of Sewer System
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used in this
Chapter shall be as follows:
APPROVED: Acceptable to or accepted by the Superintendent of Public Works as
complying with the provisions of this Chapter.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to carry domestic sewage and such industrial
wastes as may be permitted, as well as storm and surface water.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE AND SANITARY SEWAGE: The water or discharge from toilet or
other household plumbing fixtures, wash water and dishwater, interior basement
drainage and other dirty water from places of human residence, business
buildings or institutions, but not including industrial wastes.
EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected condition, the making of remedies for which
cannot be postponed until a permit has been secured without endangering life or
property.
GROUND WATER: Water which is contained in or flows through the ground.
HOUSE SANITARY CONNECTION AND HOUSE CONNECTION: The conduit or pipe for
conveying domestic sewage from residences, human habitations, institutions,
stables, garages, business buildings or industries to the connection to a
sewer.
HOUSE STORM DRAIN AND HOUSE DRAIN: A pipe or conduit which is used to conduct
surface, storm, ground, roof and yard drainage away from any building.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Liquid wastes or wastes used in or resulting from industrial
processes.
MANHOLE: An opening constructed on a sewer of sufficient size to permit a man
to gain access thereto.
PRIVATE SEWER: A privately owned sewer.
PUBLIC SEWER: A publicly owned sewer.
SATISFACTORILY OR SATISFACTORY: In a manner approved by the Superintendent of
Public Works as complying with the provisions of this Chapter.
SEPARATE SANITARY SEWER AND SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry domestic
sewage and such industrial wastes as may be permitted, without the admixture of
storm water.
SEWAGE: Liquid waste flowing in or from residences, human habitation,
institutions, stables, garages, business buildings and industries, and it may
consist of a combination of any one or more the these, and/or with such storm
and ground water as may be admitted to or find its way into the sewers.
SEWER: Any outside conduit, pipe or structure designed to convey sewage of any
kind and to serve two (2) or more properties within the corporate limits of the
Village, and shall include all manholes, intercepting chambers, pumping plants
and other appurtenances thereto within the corporate limits of the Village.
SEWER CONSTRUCTION WORK: The construction of any sewer for any purpose and
shall include house sanitary connections and house storm drains within the
corporate limits of the Village.
SEWERAGE: The works comprising the complete system of sewers, connection and
drains within the jurisdiction of the Village, including pumping stations,
manholes and appurtenances thereto necessary to the collection, treatment or
disposal of sewage, including sewage treatment plants.
SEWERAGE (Adjective): Having to do with the collection, treatment or disposal
of sewage.
SOLID WASTES: Includes garbage, ashes, rags, manure wastes, household food,
offal and other solids. The term "ashes" as herein employed shall include coal,
coke, wood and the residuum resulting from the combustion of any material or
substance and includes soot, cinders, slag and charcoal.
STORM WATER: That portion of rain, snow or sleet which flows off over the
surface of the ground, streets and structures into sewers and drainage channels
or into low points.
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS: The person designated or appointed by the Board
of Trustees to administer the provisions of this Chapter.
VILLAGE SEWER OR SEWER OF THE VILLAGE: Refers to any sewer constructed, under
construction or maintained within the corporate limits of the Village and shall
include all manholes, intercepting chambers, pumping plants or other
appurtenances thereto. (1971 Code)
8-5-2: OFFICE CREATED:
As provided in Section
1-14-3 of this Code, the Superintendent of Public Works may appoint an employee
to serve as Superintendent of Sewers. (1971 Code)
8-5-3: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of sewers:
   (A)   To examine and approve plans and specifications for sewer construction
work;
   (B)   To issue permits for such work upon the fulfillment by the applicant
of the provisions of this chapter therefor; (1971 Code)
   (C)   To collect fees as provided herein and to deliver all fees collected
to the village clerk or her duly authorized representative within fifteen (15)
days after the collection of any such fee or fees; (Ord. 282, 9-27-1976)
   (D)   To inspect sewers, including house sanitary connections and house
storm drains and the materials to be used therein;
   (E)   To conduct tests thereon;
   (F)   To issue certificates of approval;
   (G)   To keep records of actions taken and examination, inspections and
tests made, and of permits and certificates issued;
   (H)   To make a monthly report of his acts and doings to the board of
trustees; and
   (I)   To advise the public, when requested, in the manner of these
regulations relating to the sewerage system. (1971 Code)
8-5-4: WORKMANSHIP:
All workmanship in connection with the construction of any sewer or house
sanitary connection or house storm drain shall be of such character as to fully
secure the results sought to be obtained in all the sections of this chapter.
(1971 Code)
8-5-5: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any persons, other than the actual bona fide owner of the premises involved,
who desires to engage or who shall hereafter engage at any time in the
construction, alteration or repair of any sewer, sanitary connection, or storm
drain for any other person in the village, shall make application to the
superintendent of public works for a license before commencing such work, and
shall deliver to the superintendent of public works the following: a) a
certificate of insurance in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
for any and all liability for personal injury and bodily injury, and in the
amount of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for property damage. Said
certificate of insurance shall certify that such applicant is insured to
indemnify and save harmless the village of and from all liability for damages
by reason of or resulting directly or indirectly from the construction,
alteration, maintenance or repair by such person of any sewer, sanitary
connection or storm drain or any work or act of omission or commission
incidental thereto or in connection therewith; b) certificate of insurance
showing the minimum statutory limits of workers' compensation coverage; and c)
a bond signed by the applicant and two (2) sureties in the amount of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or a corporate surety bond in the sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Said bond or certificate shall also be
conditioned upon the conformance by such applicant with all the conditions and
requirements of the provisions of this code, for performing such work, and
conditioned also upon the restoration by such applicant of the street, alley,
sidewalk and pavement disturbed by him so as to leave the same in as good
condition as before the work was undertaken. Such bond or certificate shall be
signed by the applicant for such license, and by the surety or sureties on such
bond or instrument or indemnification. Upon receipt of said bond or certificate
by said superintendent of public works, it shall be the duty of the
superintendent of public works to present same to the public works committee.
The chairperson of the public works committee shall present his or her
recommendation to the village board at the next regular meeting of said board
or at any special meeting called for that purpose for approval or rejection.
Upon approval of said bond or certificate by the board of trustees, the
superintendent of public works shall forthwith issue to such applicant a
license to engage in the construction, alteration or repair of sewers, sanitary
connections, and storm drains in said village. Each application for such
license shall be accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and such
license shall run from May 1 of each year to May 1 of the following year.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed as preventing an individual from
constructing a sewer, house connection or storm drain for his own home or on
his own premises. However, this provision shall not be construed to exempt such
person from all other requirements specified in this chapter. (Ord. 766, 4-12-
2004)
8-5-6: PERMIT:
No sewer of any kind, public or private or house sanitary connection, or house
storm drain, shall be constructed or made, altered or repaired, nor shall a
connection of any sewer or house sanitary connection or house storm drain to
any sewer, public or private, be constructed or made, altered or repaired
without first having obtained from the superintendent of public works a written
permit therefor. No permit shall be issued for such construction, alteration or
repair work until the plans and specifications therefor, or required data
concerning it, have first been submitted to and approved by the superintendent
of public works.
Before issuing such permit, an application shall be filed with the
superintendent of public works, and all applications for permits shall be in
writing on blanks to be furnished by the superintendent of public works. The
application shall be signed by the owner of the premises on which the proposed
work is to be done and shall be accompanied by a complete and legible set of
plans and specifications for the work to be done, or in lieu thereof such
written description or information as shall be acceptable to the superintendent
of public works.
All details concerning the construction of any sewer or house storm drains and
their appurtenances shall be subject to the approval of the superintendent of
public works. (1971 Code)
8-5-7: PERMIT FEE; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
Each application for such permit shall be accompanied by a fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) and each applicant, if he be the owner of the premises upon which the
proposed work is to be done by him personally, shall upon the granting of the
permit agree to indemnify and save the village harmless from any and all
liability for damages to persons or property by reason of or resulting directly
or indirectly from the construction, alteration, maintenance or repair by such
person of any sewer, sanitary connection or storm drain, or any work or act of
omission or commission by such person incidental thereto or in connection
therewith. Each applicant shall further agree to conform to all of the
conditions and requirements of the provisions of this code for performing such
work, and conditioned also upon the restoration by such applicant of the
street, alley, sidewalk and pavement disturbed by him so as to leave the same
in as good a condition as before the work was undertaken. Upon inspection of
said work, and approval by the public works department of the work performed,
the fifty dollar ($50.00) permit fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
It is expressly stipulated and provided, however, that if application for a
permit specifies that the work therein described is to be performed by a person
licensed to perform such work under the provision of section
8-5-5 of this chapter, no further bond shall be required as a condition to the
issuance of such permit.
No applicant owing money to the village for fees required by this chapter even
for the work described in any such application or for any previous work
performed, or inspections made hereunder, shall be granted a permit for such
work. (Ord. 964, 2-10-2014)
8-5-8: FORFEITURE OF PERMIT OR LICENSE:
Any person or other party to whom a permit or license shall have been issued
and who shall neglect, refuse or fail to make good any defect or fault in any
of the work done or materials used under any permit or license after thirty
(30) days' written notice thereof from the superintendent of public works,
shall not be permitted to do any further or additional work of constructing any
sewer, connection or drain or appurtenances until such defects or faults have
been made good in manner satisfactory to the superintendent of public works. In
the event of such neglect, refusal or failure, any existing permit or license
in favor of such person or other party shall be revoked by the superintendent
of public works and the bond of such person enforced as to past defaults. (1971
Code)
8-5-9: CHANGES IN PLANS:
Any changes or modifications in the proposed work shall be considered as new
work, and no such changes or modifications shall be installed or made without a
supplementary permit therefor, subject to the same terms and conditions as
herein contained. The fee for such supplementary permits shall be two dollars
($2.00). (1971 Code)
8-5-10: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
If the work is not commenced under any permit within six (6) months after the
issue of said permit, or if the work is not satisfactorily prosecuted after its
commencement, such permit will be considered as having expired and shall be
null and void. (1971 Code)
8-5-11: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   (A)   All property owners within the village are required to attach any
operating human waste disposal systems on their property to available lateral
sanitary sewer mains, in such a manner that no sewage is discharged except into
said mains.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, "available lateral sanitary sewer
mains" shall mean lateral sanitary sewer mains within two hundred feet (200')
of any property line describing the lot or tract in question, and which empty
into a disposal plant approved by the state.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to persons who bring their property into
compliance with the requirements of this section within twelve (12) months
after the date of completion of available lateral sewer mains, if there are no
available lateral sanitary sewer mains for the property in question at the time
of passage of this section, provided that said property is maintained in
compliance with said requirements thereafter.
   (D)   For the purposes of this Section "date of completion of available
lateral sanitary sewer mains" shall mean the date upon which the Village Board
certifies that said mains are completed and ready for use.
   (E)   Notwithstanding subsection (C) of this Section, discharge of human
waste at any time in such a manner or location so as to create a health hazard
shall be a violation of this Section, said violation to be subject to the
penalties of this Section.
   (F)   The discharge of sewage in violation of any of the provisions of this
Section shall constitute and is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance.
   (G)   Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (H)   No septic tank or cesspool now existing or hereafter constructed shall
be connected in any way, directly or indirectly, to the public sewer system.
   (I)   Notwithstanding the time limit imposed under subsection (C) of this
Section, any operating human waste disposal systems of any new dwelling, house
or commercial building completed after the date of completion of available
lateral sanitary sewer mains shall be connected to said available lateral
sanitary sewer mains in such a manner that no sewage is discharged except into
said mains. (Ord. 276, 5-10-1976)
8-5-12: PROTECTION OF SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
   (A)   The separate sanitary sewer system of the Village was built to carry
away the domestic or sanitary sewage, the commercial sewage, and as may be
permitted, the industrial wastes of the Village. It was not designed to carry
any storm water, surface water, or ground water. Any act which shall cause any
storm water, surface water or ground water to be conveyed to and into the
sanitary sewers is herewith directly forbidden. Furthermore, such drainage is
forbidden within the sewers of the Village. Such acts are directly contrary to
the provisions of this Chapter and shall be subject to the penalties provided
in this Code. (Ord. 692, 8-28-2000)
   (B)   The sanitary or domestic sewage from all buildings in general shall be
conveyed in house sanitary connections to the public system of sanitary sewers.
Sanitary or domestic sewage shall include basement floor drainage; however,
this shall not include any storm or ground water intentionally conveyed to the
sanitary sewer system. (1971 Code)
8-5-13: NEW BUILDINGS, CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC OR SEWAGE TANKS:
   (A)   No cesspool, septic or other sewage tank shall be constructed
hereafter on property to which a public sanitary sewer is accessible.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool hereafter constructed shall be connected in
any way, directly or indirectly, to the public sewer system. (1971 Code)
8-5-14: SEWAGE TREATMENT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Where liquid wastes from any source are not discharged into a public
sewer, such wastes shall be treated or disposed of so as not to endanger or
contaminate any water supply that is or may be used for drinking or domestic
purposes or for bathing or so as not to create any nuisance or unsanitary
conditions which shall be considered either by the Superintendent of Public
Works or the Health Department of the Village as dangerous and unhealthy to the
residents and citizens of the Village.
   (B)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having:
1) a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three hundred (300)
parts per million by weight of suspended solids, or 2) containing more than
three hundred fifty (350) parts per million by weight of suspended solids, or
3) having an average daily flow greater than two percent (2%) of the average
daily sewage flow of the Village shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Village. Where necessary, the owner shall provide, at his expense, such
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to: 1) reduce the biochemical oxygen
demand to three hundred (300) parts per million and the suspended solids to
three hundred fifty (350) parts per million by weight, or 2) reduce
objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits
provided for in item 1) herein, or 3) control the quantities and rates of
discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the Engineer and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until said approval is obtained in writing. (1971
Code)
8-5-15: INDUSTRIAL WASTES AND SEWAGE:
No person shall discharge or cause or permit the discharge of industrial wastes
into any public sewer system which directly or indirectly discharges into the
sewer system of the Village without the approval of the Superintendent of
Public Works and the Board of Trustees. (1971 Code)
8-5-16: NOTICE:
In every case of a proposed sewer connection, notice shall be given to the
Superintendent of Public Works specifying the time and place where the work is
to commence. Such notice shall be in writing and given at least three (3) full
days prior to the commencement of the work. (1971 Code)
8-5-17: SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   All connections with any sewer fifteen inches (15") or smaller shall
be made by means of a "Y" or "T" branch or other special fitting provided in
such sewer for that purpose.
If a connection to a sewer must be made at any place where a "Y" or "T" branch
has not been placed, where feasible, a "Y" fitting shall be placed in the main
sewer in the following manner: a section of sewer pipe shall be removed from
the main sewer by breaking it into pieces, care being taken not to break,
disturb or injure the adjacent pipe. The "Y" fitting shall then be inserted
without chipping or breaking the pipe or branch where possible; where not
possible, the upper half (when in position) of the bell on the run of the "Y"
branch to be inserted, and the upper half of the nearest and adjacent bell on
the existing pipe in the trench, shall then be carefully removed and the "Y"
branch inserted wrong side up, and revolved to bring the branch to the side it
is intended for, with the broken part of the bell up. The joint shall then be
cemented in the proper manner, the broken parts of the bells being well rounded
over with a liberal amount of cement mortar or other approved material.
   (B)   Connections to a sewer may also be made by inserting in the sewer a
standard saddle fitting. Such a fitting shall be one designed for that purpose
and shall not be improvised from the bell end of a straight length of pipe.
Before cutting the hole in the sewer of the saddle fitting, the sides and
bottom of the length of pipe in which the hole is to be cut shall be
strengthened by a layer of concrete not less than three inches (3") in
thickness at any point. The hole in the pipe shall be carefully marked and
chipped or pinched out; the saddle placed so that no part projects into the
pipe and carefully mortared into position. Sections of pipe shall then be
fitted into the saddle to form a riser and all such pieces of pipe which are
vertically over the sewer shall be encased in a shaft of concrete having a
thickness about the pipe of not less than three inches (3"). The shaft shall
firmly rest on the block of concrete encasing the sewer pipe in which the
connection was made. The concrete shaft shall be poured into a form of light
sheet metal or stove pipe which form shall be left in place as the trench is
backfilled. The earth backfill around the shaft shall be carefully tamped and
the backfill brought up uniformly on all sides to prevent lateral loads upon
and the possible breaking of the shaft. (1971 Code)
8-5-18: QUALITY OF MATERIALS:
All materials used in any sewer, house sanitary connection or house storm
drain, or part thereof, shall be free from defects.
   (A)   Vitrified Clay Or Concrete Pipe: All vitrified clay pipe shall conform
to American Society for Testing Materials specification C 200-73T (extra
strength). All concrete pipe shall conform to American Society for Testing
Materials specification C-76 Class III.
   (B)   Cast Iron Pipe: All cast iron pipe and fittings used for sewers, house
connections or drains shall be coated with asphaltum or coal-tar pitch and
shall conform to the standard specifications for extra heavy cast iron soil
pipe and fittings of the American Society for Testing Materials, or shall
conform to the latest standard specifications for cast iron water pipe of the
American Water Works Association.
   (C)   PVC Pipe: PVC pipe shall be used only for house sanitary connections.
PVC pipe used for house sanitary connections shall conform with American
Society for Testing Materials specifications 3034, SDR 35. Appropriate adapters
shall be used in making transitions between vitrified clay pipe and PVC pipe or
between cast iron pipe and PVC pipe.
   (D)   Prohibited Material: Not permitted for use in any sewer connection or
construction are pipes known as "slip seal" or fiber (Orangeburg) pipe. (Ord.
275, 5-3-1976)
8-5-19: JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Precast Asphalt Joints: All joints in new sanitary sewers and house
sanitary connections wherein vitrified pipe shall be used shall consist of
precast asphalt, cement or other types of asphalt joints of proper workmanship.
   (B)   Cement Joints: In the event that cement joints shall be made, such
cement joints shall be made as follows: The space between the pipe and socket
shall be as uniform as possible and shall be tightly caulked with a dry jute or
oakum. The jute or oakum shall be long enough to reach entirely around the pipe
and thick enough to bring the bottom of the pipes to the same level. It shall
be well caulked into place with suitable yarning tools. After it is in place
the joint shall be solidly and completely filled with Portland cement mortar
composed by volume of not less than one part Portland cement to one of clean
sand thoroughly mixed dry, sufficient water being afterwards slowly added to
give with mixing the proper consistency. Said mortar shall be used as soon as
made and shall be solidly rammed into the joints and finished with a bevel
outside the bell in such a manner as to produce a watertight joint. Joints
shall be carefully wiped inside and out. The interior of the pipe shall be
carefully freed from all dirt, cement or superfluous materials as the work
proceeds. No cement joint as above described, shall be laid in any sanitary
sewer or house sanitary connection or commercial building connection without
approval therefor from the superintendent of public works. (1971 Code)
   (C)   PVC Pipe: Joints in PVC pipe shall be made only with rubber gaskets.
Solvent joints in PVC pipe are prohibited, except at "Y's", "T's" and elbow
joints.
   (D)   Cast Iron Pipe: All joints in cast iron pipe shall be lead joints,
except that a "mission" type coupling is hereby required when joining cast iron
pipe to plastic pipe or clay tile. (Ord. 604, 12-12-1994)
   (E)   Lead Joints: In jointing two (2) pipes, the spigot end shall be
properly seated in the adjacent bell and adjusted so as to give a uniform space
for the joint, which will be made with twisted hemp packing and soft pig lead.
The packing shall be thoroughly driven into the bell so that the lead, after
having been poured and caulked into the joint, shall have a depth of at least
two inches (2"). The joints shall be thoroughly caulked with proper tools.
(1971 Code)
8-5-20: PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit or cause the flow of any of the
following substances into the sanitary sewer system of the village:
      1.   Grease, Oil, And Sand: Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the North Pekin superintendent of public
works, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
North Pekin superintendent of public works, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. All such facilities
must be adequately and properly operated and maintained by the owner so as to
prevent the discharge of such substances into the village sewer system.
      2.   Stone Dust, Sand, Dirt: Any stone dust, sand, dirt, gravel, sawdust,
metal filings, broken glass or any material which may cause or create an
obstruction in the sewer.
      3.   Foreign Matter: No butcher's offal, garbage, dead animals, or
liquids containing silt, hair, feathers, fibers, grease and oil in excess of
one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l), or other obstructing materials
shall be permitted to enter any public sewer.
      4.   Harmful Wastes: Acid, corrosive, or harmful wastes, and wastes at a
temperature higher than one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) shall not
be discharged into any public sewer.
      5.   Explosives; Flammable Matter: No explosive or flammable matter shall
be discharged into any public sewer.
      6.   Milk Products: Milk or any liquid milk waste products in quantities
in excess of ten (10) gallons during each twenty four (24) hour period.
   (B)   If a facility is known to have caused the village sewer system to be
blocked or is known to allow large deposits to develop in the system, all costs
to have the system returned to normal operation shall be billed to said
facility.
   (C)   Existing facilities that cause the aforesaid substances (subsection
(A)3 of this section) in their waste entering the village sewer system must
install an outside interceptor designed for the maximum flow of the facility by
a licensed engineer. All costs incurred for testing, engineering and
installation shall be paid by the owner of the facility. Said facilities shall
have thirty (30) days to design and install said interceptor.
   (D)   Before construction, new facilities that are known to produce the
aforesaid substances must install an outside interceptor designed by the
owners, engineers, or architects for the anticipated maximum flows. The village
board of trustees must approve the plans before any work is to begin and before
any permits are issued for said construction.
   (E)   The maintenance of now existing and new interceptors must be
documented in a written, understandable form. The maintenance record must be
kept for at least the previous five (5) years and must include the date the
interceptor was cleaned, to where the waste was removed and by whom the
interceptor was cleaned. These records must be accessible to the village
superintendent of public works during normal business hours.
   (F)   All waste must be disposed of and hauled away by an EPA licensed waste
hauler. Records of the waste removal must be kept for inspection by the village
superintendent of public works for a period of five (5) years and can be
accessed during normal business hours. (Ord. 731, 10-14-2002)
8-5-21: CHEMICALS:
It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to flow into the sanitary sewer system
any cyanide, phenols or any other chemical or substance which interferes with
or prevents the functioning of the sewage treatment plant. (1971 Code)
8-5-22: DISTURBING, INJURING OR ENTERING SEWERS:
No person other than an authorized village employee shall disturb, or enter any
public sewer, manhole, catch basin or other part of the public sewer system
without a written permit from the superintendent of public works. (1971 Code)
8-5-23: TRAPS AND RECEIVING TANKS:
   (A)   Gasoline And Oil Traps Required: A gasoline and oil trap shall be
provided on the waste from all garages, automobile wash floors, cleaning
establishments or establishments from which gasoline, benzine or other similar
substance may be discharged. Said trap shall be installed on the waste pipe
above its junction with any other pipe or receptacle containing sewage. The
passing of human or animal excrement through such a trap is prohibited.
   (B)   Grease Traps Required: A trap designed for the collection of grease or
other fatty materials shall be installed in all restaurants, taverns, or other
locations or establishments engaged in the cooking or preparation of food for
sale to the public. Said trap shall be installed on the waste pipe above its
junction with any other pipe or receptacle containing sewage. The passing of
human or animal excrement through such a trap is prohibited. The trap shall be
cleaned and maintained as often as is necessary to prevent the discharge of any
grease or other fatty material into the sanitary sewer system of the Village.
   (C)   Sumps And Receiving Tanks: In a building in which the whole or part of
the plumbing system lies below the house connection to the public sewer the
outlet from said plumbing system or part thereof shall discharge into a sump or
receiving tank from which the sewage shall be pumped through a pipe to the
house connection or to the public sewer.
The said sump or receiving tank shall be adequate in capacity. It should be
discharged not less frequently than once each hour. It shall be constructed in
a watertight and substantial manner of masonry, vitrified clay or metal. It
shall be provided with an airtight cover. Any pipe discharging into the sump or
receiving tank shall not be submerged.
No storm, surface or ground water shall be conducted to a sump or tank
receiving domestic sewage. Such water may be conducted to a separate sump for
the purpose of pumping it to the surface of the ground or to a storm sewer if
such exists. (Ord. 368, 2-22-1982)
8-5-24: FUNCTION OF HOUSE CONNECTIONS AND DRAINS:
The domestic sewage from residences, human habitations, institutions, stables,
garages, business buildings and industries shall be conveyed from said
structures in a conduit or pipe herein termed a "house sanitary connection".
The connection shall extend to a public separate sanitary or combined sewer, if
such sewer serves the property. No storm, surface or ground water shall be
permitted to enter this house sanitary connection discharging into a sewer. No
sanitary sewage shall be discharged into a separate storm sewer. (1971 Code)
8-5-25: INDEPENDENT CONNECTIONS AND DRAINS:
Each residence, institution or business building shall have its own separate
house sanitary connection. A house sanitary connection shall not be permitted
to serve more than one residence or other unit except connections for duplexes,
apartment houses or other multiple unit users, and then only by express
permission of the Superintendent of Public Works. (1971 Code)
8-5-26: MATERIALS:
   (A)   House sanitary connections shall be of six inch (6") vitrified clay,
concrete, or PVC pipe, except within five feet (5') of the outside of a
building it shall be of four inch (4") or six inch (6") cast iron or ductile
iron pipe.
   (B)   All underground pipes when within four feet (4') or less of the
surface of the ground under a driveway shall be cast iron pipe or of vitrified
clay pipe having an envelope of concrete of a mix of 1:2:4 or better and at
least three inches (3") in thickness.
   (C)   Where a connection or drain is laid at a distance less than five feet
(5') from the exterior wall of the building, or in ground where it will be
subjected to a vibration or to settlement, cast iron pipe shall be used. Where
the ground is of sufficient solidity for a proper foundation or where special
supports or a secure foundation are provided, vitrified clay, concrete, PVC,
cast iron, or ductile iron pipes may be used. (Ord. 275, 5-3-1976)
8-5-27: LAYING:
No house sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any
bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The house sewer shall be laid at
sufficient depth to protect it from frost.
All sewer and drain pipes shall be laid carefully in a trench in a straight
line and on a straight grade. Where deviation from a straight run is necessary,
it shall be made with a curve or other acceptable fitting.
In the bottom of the trench a groove shall be cut for each hub, in order to
give the pipe a solid bearing for its entire length, and the soil backfill
shall be well rammed on either side of the pipe. (1971 Code)
8-5-28: PIPES TO BE CLOSED:
The ends of all pipes not to be immediately connected shall be securely stopped
by tile, brick, cement or other watertight and durable material. (1971 Code)
8-5-29: BACKWATER:
Where the plumbing system of a building may be subjected to backflow of sewage
or water, suitable provision shall be made to prevent overflow into the
building by the installation of a satisfactory backwater valve or valves or
other satisfactory means. (1971 Code)
8-5-30: STORM, SURFACE AND GROUND WATER:
No roofs or outside areas of any kind shall be drained into any house
connection which drains into a sewer and no roof downspouts or conductors shall
in any case be discharged directly or indirectly into the house connection and
thence into a sewer in the Village. (1971 Code)
8-5-31: INSPECTIONS:
All piping and appurtenances of a sewer system or house sanitary connections
shall be inspected by the Superintendent of Public Works to ensure compliance
with all the requirements of this Chapter and the installation and construction
of the system in accordance with any approved plan and the permit. (1971 Code)
8-5-32: NOTIFICATION:
It shall be the duty of the owner or his agent to notify the Superintendent of
Public Works orally, by telephone, or in writing not less than eight (8)
working hours before the work is to be inspected and have a time set for the
inspection.
If the Superintendent of Public Works finds on inspection that the work and
materials entered into said work are not satisfactory, the owner or his agent
shall remedy said defect and then renotify the Superintendent of Public Works
as above and arrange for a reinspection.
If the Superintendent of Public Works fails to appear within twenty four (24)
hours of the time set for an inspection, the inspection shall be deemed to have
been made. (1971 Code)
8-5-33: DEFECTIVE WORK:
If upon inspection defects in material or in work shall be found, such defects
in work or materials shall be redone or replaced within three (3) days or as
the Superintendent of Public Works may direct, and the aforementioned
inspection shall be repeated. (1971 Code)
8-5-34: CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL:
If said sewer construction work is approved by the Superintendent of Public
Works, he shall issue a certificate of satisfactory inspection, but no
certificate shall be issued unless all sewer construction is in strict
conformity with the rules and regulations of this Chapter. (1971 Code)
8-5-35: FEES:
Before the certificate of satisfactory inspection is issued, all fees due the
Village in connection with the application for a permit required under the
terms of this Chapter shall have been paid to the Superintendent of Public
Works. (1971 Code)
8-5-36: CONDEMNED MATERIALS:
The presence of any material near the site of work, other than provided for in
this Chapter, shall be sufficient cause for condemning part or the entire work.
If inspection discloses defective material or unworkmanlike construction which
does not conform to the requirements of this Chapter, such defective material
or unworkmanlike construction shall be condemned and the owner or his agent
shall be removed within three (3) days following the condemnation thereof or as
the Superintendent of Public Works may direct. (1971 Code)
8-5-37: USE OF SEWERS PROHIBITED:
No part of any new, reconstructed or repaired sewer work shall be used for
which a certificate of approval has not been issued by the Superintendent of
Public Works. Any person attempting to use or flow any sewage into the public
sewer system for any new, reconstructed or repaired sewer work without
obtaining the certificate of approval as herein provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition thereto, the Superintendent of Public Works shall
proceed forthwith to disconnect such new, reconstructed or repaired sewer work
for which no certificate of approval has been issued and may enter upon any
public or private property for the purpose of such disconnection. (1971 Code)
8-5-38: INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
In order that the sewers of the public sewer system may be fully protected
against improper use and injury, the Superintendent of Public Works shall have
free and unobstructed access to any part of any premises for the purpose of
examining the construction, condition and usage of house sanitary connections
and house storm drains at any time between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. during said construction and at any time
thereafter. Any owner, occupant or other person refusing to allow said
Superintendent of Public Works access to the premises for such purpose shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1971 Code)
8-5-39: CHARGES FOR USE OF VILLAGE SEWER:
There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a basic
user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the waste water facilities
of the Village.
Beginning January 1, 2018, a minimum charge of four dollars forty cents ($4.40)
per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of four dollars
seventy three cents ($4.73) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
Beginning January 1, 2019, a minimum charge of four dollars eighty four cents
($4.84) per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of five
dollars twenty cents ($5.20) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
Beginning January 1, 2020, a minimum charge of five dollars thirty two cents
($5.32) per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of five
dollars seventy two cents ($5.72) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
Beginning January 1, 2021, a minimum charge of five dollars eighty five cents
($5.85) per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of six
dollars twenty nine cents ($6.29) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
Beginning January 1, 2022, a minimum charge of six dollars forty three cents
($6.43) per month shall be applied to all users. A basic user rate of six
dollars ninety two cents ($6.92) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
discharged shall be applied to all users.
The volume of waste water discharged shall be determined on or about the 15th
day of each month by the methods provided under the terms of this Code. The sum
determined to be due thereby shall be billed monthly on or about the 1st day of
each month.
The increase in rate shall be effective as of the dates above and shall be
reflected beginning with the invoices generated on January 1st of each year.
The Village reserves the right to make such reasonable changes in rates and the
conditions herein established and to establish further rules and regulations
from time to time as may be found expedient or necessary. (Ord. 1011, 11-13-
2017)
8-5-40: MEASUREMENT OF VOLUME OF WASTE DISCHARGED:
To compute basic user charges under this chapter, the volume of waste
discharged shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of one hundred (100) gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his water from sources other than the public waterworks system,
all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the
Department of Public Works for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of water discharged may be required
by the Department of Public Works if these volumes cannot be otherwise
determined by the metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person; following approval and
installation such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Department of Public Works.
   (D)   Any consumer may request that service be suspended for a specified
period of time. However, during such suspension of service, the consumer shall
continue to be charged the minimum charge outlined in section
8-5-39 of this chapter. (Ord. 1022, 8-27-2018)
8-5-41: INJURY TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM:
No person or persons shall wilfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
destroy or injure any public sewer or appurtenances thereto in the Village.
(1971 Code)
8-5-42: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM:
No person shall interfere with, molest, uncover, take off covers from manholes
or lamp holes, or disturb any portion of the public sewer system or
appurtenances thereto in the Village.
Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any
section thereof, shall become liable to the Village for any expense or damage
occasioned to the Village by reason of such violation, and in addition thereto
shall be subject to any of the fines and penalties as in this Code provided.
(1971 Code)
8-5-43: VIOLATION; REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
The permit or license of a sewer builder shall become void in the Village when
he shall refuse or neglect within three (3) days' time after notification
thereof in writing to make such necessary corrections to the sewer work either
in workmanship or material as shall have been ordered by the Superintendent of
Public Works, or as such person shall permit the use of his name by another
person or persons for the purpose of obtaining a permit or license to do sewer
work.
Any sewer builder who shall construct or install any sewer work in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, and any builder, contractor, architect
or designer designing, drawing or issuing plans for or having charge of such
sewer work or who shall permit it to be so constructed or installed shall be
liable to the penalties provided or imposed in this code. (1971 Code)
8-5-44: FEES FOR ATTACHING TO SEWER SYSTEM:
   (A)   A connection fee in an amount determined as hereinafter set forth
shall be charged for any extension of any sanitary sewer mains or the
installation of any new "tee" or other tap- in to the village's sanitary sewer
system. The connection fee shall be in the following amount:
      1.   For each single-family residence or residential site, the sum of two
hundred dollars ($200.00).
      2.   For each multiple-family residence, the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the first unit and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
additional unit.
      3.   For each residential lot zoned for the construction of two (2)
living units per lot, the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      4.   For each residential lot zoned for the construction of more than two
(2) living units per lot, the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00).
      5.   For commercial or industrial buildings or commercial or industrial
sites, the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per lot.
   (B)   In the case of buildings, lots, or parcels annexed to the village, the
fees herein provided shall be paid prior to commencing work on connection of
the respective building, lot or parcel to the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Where lots are created by the subdivision of property already lying
within the corporate limits of the village at the time of subdivision, the fee
herein provided shall be paid upon the approval of the plat of subdivision but
before assent to the subdivision is indicated on the plat for recording
purposes.
   (D)   The fee for such connection shall be in addition to any assessments
which may from time to time be levied against such parcels for the cost of
constructing, reconstructing or extending any sewer lines.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, by himself or through his
employees, agents or contractors to connect or commence work on the connection
to the sanitary sewer system prior to the payment in full of any fees
prescribed in this section. (Ord. 390, 5-23-1983)
8-5-45: DELINQUENT CHARGES; LIEN:
   (A)   Whenever the charges for sewer service are not paid within fifteen
(15) days after the rendition of the bill therefor, such charges shall be
deemed and are hereby described to be delinquent, and thereafter the village
shall have a continuing lien upon the premises and real estate upon or for
which sewer is used or supplied.
   (B)   Every such lien shall, upon compliance with the conditions hereinafter
set forth, become and be prior and superior to the rights and interests of
creditors, encumbrances, purchasers and other parties in interest in the
premises and real estate. (Ord. 412, 9-10-1984)
8-5-46: AFFIDAVIT; RECORDING, NOTICE TO CONSUMER:
   (A)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid fifteen (15) days
after it has been rendered, the village clerk shall file with the recorder of
deeds of Tazewell County, state of Illinois, a statement of lien claim verified
by the affidavit of herself or other officer of the village having knowledge of
the facts. The statement shall contain a sufficiently correct description of
the lot, lots or tracts of land to identify the same, the balance due after
allowing all credits, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this
amount, as well as for all charges for sewer supplied subsequent to the period
covered by the bill.
   (B)   No such lien shall be defeated to the proper amount thereof because of
an error or overcharge on the part of the village, nor shall any such lien be
defeated upon proof that such sewer was consumed or contracted for by a tenant
of the premises or occupant thereof other than the owner.
   (C)   If the consumer of sewer whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises, and the village clerk has notice of this fact, notice shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises, if his address be known to the clerk, whenever
such bill remains unpaid for a period of fifteen (15) days after it has been
rendered.
   (D)   The failure of the clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner of such premises to receive such notice,
shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid sewer bills, as
provided in section
8-5-47 of this chapter. (Ord. 412, 9-10-1984)
8-5-47: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   If payment shall not be made as provided in this chapter, any amount
due for sewer service when the same becomes due, the village may file or cause
to be filed a complaint in the circuit court of Tazewell County for a
foreclosure of such lien or, upon becoming a defendant in any pending suit
affecting the premises or real estate, an answer to the complaint in the nature
of an intervening petition or a cross complaint, and the village may proceed in
its corporate name to foreclose such lien in like manner and with like effect
as provided by the statutes of the state in foreclosure of mechanic's liens or
other statutory liens. Such suit shall be commenced or answered by cross
complaint filed within two (2) years after the accrual of such sewer rates,
charges or benefits. Any decree rendered in the court may be enforced and
collected as other decrees or judgments in the same court.
   (B)   The remedy provided in this section for the collection of delinquent
sewer rates, charges or benefits shall not be construed to abridge or in any
manner interfere with the right and power of the village to enforce a
collection thereof by any other action or as otherwise provided in this
chapter, but the remedy herein provided shall be taken and held as an
additional means to enforce payment of such delinquent sewer rates, charges or
benefits. (Ord. 412, 9-10-1984)
8-5-48: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SEWER SYSTEM:
The village shall be responsible for the repair and maintenance of that portion
of the system located upon, on and under the village's right of way, or any
easement given to the village for installation of the sewer system. Any portion
of the sewer system located on, across, or under private property shall be
maintained and repaired at the expense and pursuant to the responsibility of
the property owner upon whose property such portion of the sewer system is
located. (Ord. 533, 6-10-1991)
CHAPTER 6
DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Permit Required
8-6-2: Fee 1  (Rep. by Ord. 862, 10-15-2008)
8-6-3: Grade Surface
8-6-4: Construction Standards
8-6-5: Repair
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections
  10-13-2(A)5(j) and (A)5(k) of this code.
8-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across any
sidewalk in the village without obtaining a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the clerk and shall be
accompanied by the fee required.
No permit for the construction of a driveway for commercial use, or the
habitual use of any other than the owner or occupant of the premises served,
shall be issued except upon the order of the board of trustees. (1971 Code)
8-6-2: FEE 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 862, 10-15-2008)
 
Notes
1 2. See subsections
  10-13-2(A)5(j) and (A)5(k) of this code.
8-6-3: GRADE SURFACE:
No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a steep, sharp
depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such material as to render it slippery or hazardous for
pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk, or be other than level. (1971 Code)
8-6-4: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   (A)   All driveways leading from the street to the garages or parking areas
must be dust free, or of blacktop or concrete construction. Where village curbs
are removed for the purposes of making entrance, the curb and gutter must be
removed as far away from the driveway entrance as the nearest contraction or
expansion joint, or a sawed joint, and then replaced so as to ensure a smoothly
joining entrance. The radius of the return of the driveway must be five feet
(5'). No village curb can be removed without first obtaining a curb removal
permit from the superintendent of public works. (Ord. 863, 10-15-2008)
   (B)   No driveway shall be constructed across a natural drainage ditch or
manmade drainage ditch, except where a curb and gutter already exist, without
first installing a culvert pipe in said ditch under the area where the driveway
is to be constructed. The culvert pipe is to be constructed of corrugated
galvanized steel or some other product of equal or higher quality and be a
length and diameter sufficient to ensure proper drainage. The superintendent of
public works or, in his absence, a person designated by the village to act in
his place, shall inspect and approve the length, diameter, level and grade of
the culvert pipe and drainage ditch before final construction of a driveway may
occur over a natural or manmade drainage ditch. All culverts shall be installed
by or at the direction of the superintendent of public works, or in his
absence, a person designated by the village to act in his place, at his
discretion. The property owner shall pay for all expenses of installation of
any culvert except village employee labor expense.
   (C)   Whenever an existing driveway lies across a natural or manmade
drainage ditch and impedes the proper drainage of said ditch, the
superintendent of public works or, in his absence, a person designated by the
village to act in his place, shall require the owner of the property where said
driveway lies to assume responsibility for:
      1.   Installation of a culvert pipe under said driveway according to the
specifications set forth in subsection (B) of this section, or
      2.   Reconstruction of the existing culvert pipe lying under said
driveway according to the specifications set forth in subsection (B) of this
section.
   (D)   Whenever an existing driveway lies across a natural or manmade
drainage ditch and impedes the proper drainage of said ditch, if the
superintendent of public works or, in his absence, a person designated by the
village to act in his place, determines that the property owner has failed and
refuses to either assume responsibility for installation of a culvert pipe or
reconstruct an existing culvert pipe as required in subsection (C) of this
section, then said superintendent of public works or, in his absence, a person
designated by the village to act in his place, shall proceed to install a
culvert pipe or reconstruct the existing culvert pipe on behalf of said
property owner and record a lien for the cost of the materials, equipment and
labor incurred in connection therewith against the real estate involved. (Ord.
690, 8-28-2000)
8-6-5: REPAIR:
It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a driveway to keep the same in
good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 7
STORM DRAINS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Connection Prohibited
8-7-1: CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or cause to be connected, any
drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool,
industrial waste, or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances, to
any separate storm water drain in the Village 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  8-5-12 of this Title.
CHAPTER 8
EXTENSION OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES BEYOND VILLAGE LIMITS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Extension Of Services
8-8-1: EXTENSION OF SERVICES:
No Municipal services of the Village, including fire protection; police
protection; water facilities; sewer facilities; and street maintenance, repair
and snow removal shall be provided beyond the corporate limits of the Village
where it is legally possible for the territory outside the Village limits which
is served or desires to be served by any of the above Municipal services to
annex to the Village. (Ord. 202, 5-24-1971)
CHAPTER 9
OUTDOOR ADVERTISERS; BILLBOARDS; SIGNS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 1014, 3-12-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 18 of this Code.
CHAPTER 10
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-10-1: Installation Of Plumbing; Approval
8-10-2: Approval Of Connection
8-10-3: Hazards To Water Supply; Investigation
8-10-4: Cross-Connection Control Inspection
8-10-5: Discontinue Water Service; Reconnection
8-10-6: Consumer Responsible For Cleanup
8-10-7: Cross-Connection Control; General Policy
8-10-8: Definitions
8-10-9: Water System
8-10-10: Cross-Connection Prohibited; Exceptions
8-10-11: Survey And Investigations
8-10-12: Where Protection Is Required
8-10-13: Type Of Protection Required
8-10-14: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-10-15: Inspection And Maintenance
8-10-16: Booster Pumps
8-10-17: Violations
8-10-1: INSTALLATION OF PLUMBING; APPROVAL:
All plumbing installed within the Village shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois Administration Code 890. If in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable
local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code,
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations. (Ord. 560, 11-
11-1991)
8-10-2: APPROVAL OF CONNECTION:
No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit to
be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply of the Village may enter the
supply or distribution system of said Municipality, unless such private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent of Water and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-3: HAZARDS TO WATER SUPPLY; INVESTIGATION:
It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2)
years, or as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records
of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five (5) years. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-4: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL INSPECTION:
The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the Village for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Superintendent of
Water or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable
time any property served by a connection to the public water supply or
distribution system of the Village for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection control
inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he may
request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-5: DISCONTINUE WATER SERVICE; RECONNECTION:
The Superintendent of Water is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this Chapter
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter, and until a reconnection fee of (substantial amount
of money) is paid to the Village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice
can be effected when the Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent
danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such
action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply;
provided, that in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
Neither the public water supply, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this Chapter, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-6: CONSUMER RESPONSIBLE FOR CLEANUP:
The consumer responsible for back-siphoned or back-pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-7: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL; GENERAL POLICY:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable
water system and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   (B)   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public water supply system of the Village.
   (C)   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back-siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or his
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his own expense;
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection
8-10-11(D)4 of this Chapter for a period of at least five (5) years. The
Superintendent of Water may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection
inspection report to the Village to assist in determining whether or not
service line protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections
shall be conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-8: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of these regulations:
    AGENCY: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION: Any impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
     Direct Cross-Connection: A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
     Indirect Cross-Connection: A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify the "health hazard"
means a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in
death or significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 36 Illinois Administrative Code 604.
   PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main on the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. Plumbing includes piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Polluted or contaminated waters.
      2.   Process waters.
      3.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may be deteriorated in sanitary quality.
      4.   Cooling waters.
      5.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems.
      6.   Chemicals in solution or suspension.
      7.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other processes or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shut-off valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-9: WATER SYSTEM:
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer's water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   (E)   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to the points of use. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-10: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Exceptions To Provisions: Connections between potable water systems
and other systems or equipment containing water or other substances of unknown
or questionable quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-
connection control devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to
ensure proper operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   Prohibitions:
      1.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-11: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent of Water, or his authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross-connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   Connections Removed Or Devices Installed: All cross- connections are
removed; or approved cross-connection control devices are installed for control
of backflow and back- siphonage.
      2.   Compliance With Instructions: Cross-connection control devices shall
be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Regular Inspections: Cross-connection control devices shall be
inspected at the time of installation and at least annually by a person
approved by the Agency as a cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI).
The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing And Records:
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4(e).
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)    Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Services performed and date completed. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-12: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving the
premises, where in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, actual or
potential hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or other systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from the public water supply system which are no longer
under the sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water.
      3.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the cross- connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
Superintendent of Water determines that no actual or potential hazard to the
public water supply system exists.
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 560, 11-11-
1991)
8-10-13: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   (A)   The type of protection required under sections 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 of
these regulations 1  shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under sections 6.4 and 6.5 of these
regulations shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; and
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
560, 11-11-1991)
 
Notes
1 1.  Regulations, when referred to in this Chapter, mean the Illinois
  Environmental Protection Agency regulations.
8-10-14: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specifications.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-15: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the most
recent test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Services performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by section 9A of said regulations.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-16: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) pounds per square
inch or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
8-10-17: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on
the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities/Operations.
   (D)   Neither the Village, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customers of the Village for any injury, damages
or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water
supply in accordance with the terms of this Chapter, whether or not said
termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross- connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Chapter shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter in addition
to the fine provided, shall become liable to the Village for any expense, loss
or damage occasioned by the Village by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice. (Ord. 560, 11-11-1991)
CHAPTER 11
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
8-11-1: Definitions
8-11-2: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
8-11-3: Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
8-11-4: Collection, Enforcement, And Administration
8-11-5: Compliance With Other Laws
8-11-6: Existing Franchises And Licenses
8-11-7: Penalties
8-11-8: Enforcement
8-11-9: Severability
8-11-10: Conflict
8-11-11: Waiver And Fee Implementation
8-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the Village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the Village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the Village, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the Village. However, "gross charges" shall not include:
   (A)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
under: 1) the fee imposed by this Chapter, 2) additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, 3)
amounts collected under section
8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 4) the tax imposed by the
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, 5) 911 surcharges, or 6) the tax imposed by
section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
   (B)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
Village;
   (C)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time- sharing agreement;
   (D)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   (E)   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the Village;
   (F)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
   (G)   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or excludable that
has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under applicable Federal
income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to be bad is
subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that portion
during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   (H)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunications
devices; or
   (I)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the Village of North Pekin.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any Municipal street, alley, water or public right of way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements
wherein the Village has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit
the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
"Public right of way" shall not include any real or personal Village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include Village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right of way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the State of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business,
or any agent or other representative operating within this State under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in this State.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to- ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include "wireless
telecommunications" as hereinafter defined. "Telecommunications" shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the Village
through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
   (A)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
   (B)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Means and includes every
person engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail
as defined in this Section. The Village may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this State, who, to the satisfaction
of the Village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the Village.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(C) of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Public Law No. 104-104), 42 USC section 332(c)
(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services. (Ord. 646, 2-23-1998)
8-11-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
   (A)   Every "telecommunications provider" as defined by this Chapter shall
register with the Village within thirty (30) days after the effective date of
this Chapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on
a form to be provided by the Village, provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to subsection
8-11-4(C) of this Chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this Section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the Village
pursuant to subsection (A) of this Section has an affirmative duty to submit an
amended registration form or current return as required by subsection
8-11-4(C) of this Chapter, as the case may be, to the Village within thirty
(30) days from the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information
provided by the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most
recent return on file with the Village. (Ord. 646, 2-23-1998)
8-11-3: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE:
   (A)   A Village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of one percent (1%)
of all gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service
addresses within the Village for telecommunications originating or received in
the Village.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this Chapter, the Village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights of way within the Village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this Chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The Village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this Section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in Section
8-11-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 646, 2-23-1998)
8-11-4: COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the Village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village President the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
Village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed two percent (2%)
of the Village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse
itself for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the Municipal infrastructure fee to the Village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village President
and shall contain such information as the Village President may reasonably
require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this Chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village. The charge imposed under subsection
(A) of this Section by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this Chapter
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this Chapter, whether as
a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this Chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the Village President request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three (3) years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless: 1) the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the Village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations, and 2) the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this Chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      1.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      2.   "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      3.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in section
8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      4.   "Gross revenue" for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in section 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act.
   (G)   The Village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this Chapter
to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to
the Village for the Village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of
the amount of the Village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the Village by
the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the Village plus five percent
(5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any
costs incurred by the Village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to
exceed five percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in
an audit. Said sum shall be paid to the Village within twenty one (21) days
after the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   (H)   The Village President, or his or her designee, may promulgate such
further or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement
of this Chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time
to time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to Section
8-11-2 of this Chapter of such regulations. (Ord. 646, 2-23-1998)
8-11-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes; and
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or
repair of the public rights of way, including standards relating to
freestanding towers and other structures upon the public rights of way, as
provided; and
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this Code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over, or within the right of way. (Ord. 646,
2-23-1998)
8-11-6: EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the Village entered into before the effective date of this
Chapter regarding the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived. (Ord. 646, 2-23-1998)
8-11-7: PENALTIES:
Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this Code. (Ord.
646, 2-23-1998)
8-11-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this Chapter.
(Ord. 646, 2-23-1998)
8-11-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this Chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 646, 2-23-1998)
8-11-10: CONFLICT:
This Chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto
which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 646, 2-
23-1998)
8-11-11: WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION:
   (A)   The Village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the Village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing Village franchise,
license, or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the
time the Village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.
This waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure
maintenance fee provided for in this Chapter is subject to being lawfully
imposed on the telecommunications retailer and collected by the
telecommunications retailer from the customer.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
Village has a franchise.
   (C)   The Village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
Chapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than ninety (90) days after the Village provides written notice by
certified mail to each telecommunications retailer with whom the Village has an
existing franchise, license, or similar agreement that the Village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license, or similar agreement
during such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected
by the retailer and remitted to the Village. The infrastructure maintenance fee
shall apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as
established in the preceding sentence. (Ord. 646, 2-23-1998)
CHAPTER 12
PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-12-1: Definitions
8-12-2: Standards And Regulations
8-12-3: Permits And Application Fees And Procedures
8-12-4: Conflict Of Laws
8-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms will have the following
meanings:
ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE: An existing pole or other structure within the
public right-of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a utility
pole or a Village-owned infrastructure.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio signals used in the provision of any type of wireless communications
services.
APPLICANT: Any person or entity submitting an application to install personal
wireless telecommunication facilities or structures to support the facilities
within a public right-of- way.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): A type of personal wireless telecommunication
facility consisting of a network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected
to a common source via a transport medium that provides wireless service within
a geographic area. Generally serves multiple carriers.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery, bushes
or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from public view.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is of a utility pole, an
alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA: An antenna that is part of a
personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Equipment, exclusive of an
antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An antenna, equipment, and
related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data video streams, images, or other information
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, paging, and Wi-Fi antenna service.
SMALL CELL FACILITIES: A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity in a limited defined
area. Generally single- service provider installation.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an alternative
antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
Except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, the requirements for a tower
and associated antenna facilities shall be those required in this chapter.
UTILITY POLE: An upright pole designed and used to support electric cables,
telephone cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which are
used to provide lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function.
VARIANCE OR VARIATION: A grant of relief by the Village President or his
designee.
VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure in public right-of- way within the
boundaries of the Village, including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic
signals, towers, structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained by the
Village.
WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices. (Ord. 1018, 7-30-2018)
8-12-2: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
Personal wireless telecommunication facilities will be permitted to be placed
in rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village as attachments to
existing utility poles, alternative antenna structures, or Village-owned
infrastructure subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Number Limitation And Co-Location: The Village President or his
designee may regulate the number of personal wireless telecommunications
facilities allowed on each utility pole or unit of Village-owned
infrastructure. No more than two (2) personal wireless telecommunications
facilities will be permitted on utility poles or alternative antenna structure
of ninety feet (90') or less. No more than three (3) personal wireless
telecommunications facilities will be permitted on utility poles or alternative
antenna structures in excess of ninety feet (90') and less than one hundred
twenty feet (120'). This subsection does not preclude or prohibit co-location
of personal wireless telecommunication facilities on towers or monopoles that
meet the requirements as set forth elsewhere in this section or as required by
Federal law.
   (B)   Separation And Clearance Requirements: Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities may be attached to a utility pole, alternative
antenna structure, monopole, or Village-owned infrastructure only where such
pole, structure or infrastructure is located no closer than a distance equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the height of such facility to any residential
building and no closer than three hundred feet (300') from any other personal
wireless telecommunication facility. A separation or lesser clearance may be
allowed by the Village President or his designee as an administrative variance
to this subsection when the applicant establishes that the lesser separation or
clearance is necessary to close a significant coverage or cap a Village gap in
the applicant's services or to otherwise provide adequate services to
customers, and the proposed antenna or facility is the least intrusive means to
do so within the right-of-way.
   (C)   Village-Owned Infrastructure: Personal wireless telecommunication
facilities can only be mounted to Village-owned infrastructure including, but
not limited to, streetlights, traffic signal, towers or buildings, if
authorized by a license or other agreement between the owner and the Village.
   (D)   New Towers: No new monopole or other tower to support personal
wireless telecommunication facilities in excess of sixty feet (60') is
permitted to be installed on right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the
Village unless the Village Board of Trustees finds, based on clear and
convincing evidence provided by the applicant, that locating the personal
wireless telecommunications facilities on the right-of-way is necessary to
close a significant coverage or cap a Village gap in the applicant's services
or to otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the proposed new
monopole or other tower within the right-of-way is the least intrusive means to
do so.
   (E)   Attachment Limitations: No personal wireless telecommunication antenna
or facility within the right-of-way will be attached to a utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower, or Village-owned infrastructure unless
all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   Surface Area Of Antenna: The personal wireless telecommunication
antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas or dish-shaped antennas,
cannot have a surface area of more than seven (7) cubic feet in volume.
      2.   Size Of Above-Ground Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facility:
The total combined volume of all above-ground equipment and appurtenances
comprising a personal wireless telecommunication facility, exclusive of the
antenna itself, cannot exceed thirty two (32) cubic feet.
      3.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of a
personal wireless telecommunication facility must, whenever possible, locate
the base of the equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower than eight
feet (8') above grade.
      4.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Services Equipment Mounted At
Grade: In the event that the operator of a personal wireless telecommunication
facility proposes to install a facility where equipment or appurtenances are to
be installed at grade, screening must be installed to minimize the visibility
of the facility. Screening must be installed at least three feet (3') from the
equipment installed at-grade and eight feet (8') from a roadway.
      5.   Height: The top of the highest point of the antenna cannot extend
more than seven feet (7') above the highest point of the utility pole,
alternative antenna support structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure.
If necessary, the replacement or new utility pole, alternative support
structure or Village-owned infrastructure located within the public right-of-
way may be no more than ten feet to seventy feet (10' - 70') higher than
existing poles adjacent to the replacement or new pole or structure, or no more
than ninety feet (90') in height overall, whichever is less.
      6.   Color: A personal wireless telecommunication facility, including all
related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color that blends with the
surroundings of the pole, structure tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted and use non- reflective materials which blend with the materials and
colors of the surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must be covered with
an appropriate cover.
      7.   Antenna Panel Covering: A personal wireless telecommunication
antenna may include a radome cap or other antenna panel covering or shield, to
the extent such covering would not result in a larger or more noticeable
facility and, if proposed, such covering must be of a color that blends with
the color of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted.
      8.   Wiring And Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the
remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the Electrical
Code currently in effect. No wiring and cabling serving the facility will be
allowed to interfere with any wiring or cabling installed by a cable television
or video service operator, electric utility or telephone utility.
      9.   Grounding: The personal wireless telecommunication facility must be
grounded in accordance with the requirements of the Electrical Code currently
in effect in the Village.
      10.   Guy Wires: No guy or other support wires will be used in connection
with a personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is to
be attached to an existing utility pole, alternative antenna support structure,
tower or Village- owned infrastructure that incorporated guy wires prior to the
date that an applicant has applied for a permit.
      11.   Pole Extensions: Extensions to utility poles, alternative support
structures, towers and Village-owned infrastructure utilized for the purpose of
connecting a personal wireless telecommunications antenna and its related
personal wireless telecommunications equipment must have a degree of strength
capable of supporting the antenna and any related appurtenances and cabling and
capable of withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance with the
applicable structural integrity standards as set forth in subsection (E)12 of
this section. An extension must be securely bound to the utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure in
accordance with applicable engineering standards for the design and attachment
of such extensions.
      12.   Structural Integrity: The personal wireless telecommunication
facility, including the antenna, pole extension and all related equipment must
be designed to withstand a wind force and ice loads in accordance with
applicable standards established in chapter 25 of the National Electric Safety
Code for utility poles, rule 250-B and 250-C standards governing wind, ice, and
loading forces on utility poles, in the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) in TIA/EIA section 222-G established by the Telecommunications Industry
Association (TIA) and the Electronics Industry Association (EIA) for steel
wireless support structures and the applicable industry standard for other
existing structures. For any facility attached to Village-owned infrastructure
or, in the discretion of the Village, for a utility pole, tower, or alternative
antenna structure, the operator of the facility must provide the Village with a
structural evaluation of each specific location containing a recommendation
that the proposed installation passes the standards described above. The
evaluation must be prepared by a professional structural engineer licensed in
the State of Illinois.
   (F)   Signage: Other than signs required by Federal law or regulations or
identification and location markings, installation of signs on a personal
wireless telecommunication facility is prohibited.
   (G)   Screening: If screening is required under subsection (E)4 of this
section, it must be natural landscaping material or a fence subject to the
approval of the Village and must comply with all regulations of the Village.
Appropriate landscaping must be located and maintained and must provide the
maximum achievable screening, as determined by the Village, from view of
adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than nine feet (9') in
height. Landscape screening when permitted in the right-of-way must be provided
with a clearance of three feet (3') in all directions from the facility. The
color of housing for ground-mounted equipment must blend with the surroundings.
For a covered structure, the maximum reasonably achievable screening must be
provided between such facility and the view from adjoining properties and
public or private streets. In lieu of the operator installing the screening,
the Village, at its sole discretion, may accept a fee from the operator of the
facility for the acquisition, installation, or maintenance of landscaping
material by the Village.
   (H)   Permission To Use Utility Pole Or Alterative Antenna Structure: The
operator of a personal wireless telecommunication facility must submit to the
Village written copies of the approval from the owner of a utility pole,
monopole, or an alternative antenna structure, to mount the personal wireless
telecommunication facility on that specific pole, tower, or structure, prior to
issuance of the Village permit.
   (I)   Licenses And Permits: The operator of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility must verify to the Village that it has received all
concurrent licenses and permits required by other agencies and governments with
jurisdiction over the design, construction, location and operation of said
facility have been obtained and will be maintained within the corporate limits
of the Village.
   (J)   Variance Requirements: Each location of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility within a right-of-way must meet all of the
requirements of this chapter, unless a variance has been obtained in accordance
with applicable Village ordinances.
   (K)   Abandonment And Removal: Any personal wireless telecommunication
facility located within the corporate limits of the Village that is not
operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, shall be considered
abandoned and the owner of the facility must remove same within ninety (90)
days of receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return-
receipt-requested, by the Village to such owner at the last known address of
such owner. In the case of personal wireless telecommunication facilities
attached to Village owned infrastructure, if such facility is not removed
within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the
removal of such facility through the terms of the applicable license agreement
or through whatever actions are provided by law for removal and cost recovery.
(Ord. 1018, 7-30-2018)
8-12-3: PERMITS AND APPLICATION FEES AND PROCEDURES:
Permits for placement of personal wireless telecommunication facilities in
right-of-way within the Village are required. An application shall be received
and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
   (A)   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the Village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the completed
facility;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
      6.   Certification that the collocation complies with this chapter to the
best of the applicant's knowledge.
   (B)   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after receiving an application, the Village
shall determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant.
If the application is incomplete the Village shall identify the missing
information. The applicant may cure any deficiencies identified by the Village
and resubmit the revised application one time within thirty (30) days of
notification of the deficiency. If such revised application is received within
thirty (30) days, the applicant shall not be required to pay an additional
application fee. However if the revised application remains incomplete or is
received after thirty (30) days of the date of notification of the deficiency,
it shall be construed as a new application and the applicant must submit the
application fee with the revised application. The date of notification shall be
the date that the notice is either hand- delivered or the date of mailing the
notice by first-class United States mail.
      2.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure. However, the Village shall deny any
application which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   In the event any application is denied by the Village, the Village
shall provide notification of the specific reason for the denial. The applicant
may cure any deficiencies identified by the Village and resubmit the revised
application one time within thirty (30) days of notification of the deficiency.
If such revised application is received within thirty (30) days, the applicant
shall not be required to pay an additional application fee. However if the
revised application remains incomplete or is received after thirty (30) days of
the date of notification of the deficiency, it shall be construed as a new
application and the applicant must submit the application fee with the revised
application. The date of notification shall be the date that the notice is
either hand-delivered or the date of mailing the notice by first-class United
States mail.
      4.   If an application is approved by the Village, the Village shall
issue a permit to the applicant upon the payment of the permit fee as outlined
in subsection (D) of this section.
   (C)   Application Fee: Application fees shall be non-refundable and are
imposed as follows:
      1.   The applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty
dollars ($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a
consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on
existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   The applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Application fees shall not apply to routine maintenance. In
addition, application fees shall not apply to the replacement of wireless
facilities with wireless facilities that are substantially similar, the same
size, or smaller if the wireless provider notifies the Village at least ten
(10) days prior to the planned replacement and includes equipment specification
for the replacement of equipment.
   (D)   Permit Fee: An annual permit fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
shall be due for each small wireless facility. (Ord. 1018, 7-30-2018)
8-12-4: CONFLICT OF LAWS:
Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter regarding the
siting and installation of personal wireless telecommunication facilities are
more restrictive than comparable conditions imposed elsewhere in any other
local law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation, the regulations of this
chapter will govern. (Ord. 1018, 7-30-2018)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
ARTICLE I.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1-1: Title
9-1-1-2: Definitions
9-1-1-3: Unlawful Moving Of Vehicles
9-1-1-4: Putting Glass And Other Destructive Materials On Highway
9-1-1-5: Accident Reports Required
9-1-1-6: Duty On Striking Unattended Vehicle
9-1-1-7: Duty On Striking Fixtures Or Other Property
9-1-1-8: Permits For Parades Or Processions
9-1-1-9: Designation And Right Of Way Of Funeral Processions
9-1-1-10: Duties Of Drivers In Funeral Processions
9-1-1-11: Picking Up Hitchhikers Prohibited
9-1-1-12: Riding On Motorcycles, Motor-Driven Cycles, Motor Scooters
9-1-1-13: Opening Vehicle Doors
9-1-1-14: Boarding, Alighting From Moving Vehicles Prohibited
9-1-1-15: Obstruction To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
9-1-1-16: Riding In House Trailers Prohibited
9-1-1-17: Regulations Applicable To Pushcarts, Animals
9-1-1-18: Coasters, Roller Skates, Toy Vehicles
9-1-1-19: Clinging To Vehicles
9-1-1-20: Riding On Running Boards
9-1-1-21: Privileges Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
9-1-1-22: Exemption Of Vehicles Engaged In Repair
9-1-1-1: TITLE:
This Title may be cited as and referred to as THE TRAFFIC CODE OF THE VILLAGE
OF NORTH PEKIN. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this Chapter the following words and phrases are used, they shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All vehicles in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle
incapable of being driven in its condition or any vehicle that has not been
moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and is apparently
deserted.
ALLEY: A public way within a block generally giving access and passageway to
the rear of lots or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is more than twenty five (25) years of
age or a bona fide replica thereof and which is driven on the highways only
going to and returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition or for
servicing or demonstration, or a firefighting vehicle more than twenty (20)
years old which is not used as firefighting equipment but is used only for the
purpose of exhibition or demonstration.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Emergency vehicles of Municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department and ambulances.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which a human may ride
having two (2) tandem wheels of which one is more than sixteen inches (16") in
diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory, contiguous to and including a highway when
within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy
at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred
feet (300') collectively on both sides of such highway.
CROSSING GUARD: An adult civilian officially authorized to supervise and
expedite the crossing of school children or other pedestrians at hazardous or
congested traffic points.
CROSSWALK: The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the prolongation
or connection of sidewalk lines at intersections, or any other portion of a
roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by markings.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
DRIVEWAY: A strip of land improved for the purpose of providing access from
private property to main traveled portion of public ways.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a State, County, or Municipal officer or employee
in response to an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service
corporation on an emergency call.
EXPLOSIVE: All chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS: Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by tagliabue or equivalent closed cup
test device.
FUNERAL PROCESSION: A procession consisting of motor vehicles which are
designed and used for the carrying of not more than seven (7) passengers, a
funeral hearse and floral cars, or combination thereof with any of the
following added: foot units and equestrian units, proceeding to a place of
burial.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
within the Village when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
HOLIDAYS: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any unused motor vehicle or any motor vehicle from
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power; provided, however, that this definition shall not be construed to
include any motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or
repair operations, nor to any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when
not in use, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business
engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
roadways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more apart, then
ever crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternative entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid collision with any other vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled but not operated upon
rails. For the purpose of this Code, motor vehicles as a class shall be divided
into divisions, viz:
   (A)   Those vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not more than
ten (10) persons.
   (B)   Those vehicles which are designed and used for pulling or carrying
freight and also those vehicles or motor cars which are designed and used for
the carrying of more than seven (7) persons.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named they shall mean
standard time or daylight-saving time as may be in current use in the Village.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle or streetcar.
PARK; WHEN PROHIBITED: The standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading and unloading.
PARKING METER: Any mechanism which upon deposit of a coin or coins of the
United States in the amount indicated thereon, displays a signal showing
parking from the time of depositing such coin or coins until the expiration of
the time fixed for parking in the parking meter zone in which it is located,
and upon expiration of such time indicates by sign or signal that the lawful
parking meter period has expired.
PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb, reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
PLAY STREET: Street or part of street devoted to recreational purposes for
children.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the Village Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violation of
traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the Village which is not a street or
highway.
PROPERTY LINE: The boundary line between any public way and the private
property abutting thereto.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by any governmental agency.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: A motor vehicle, as defined in the motor vehicle law
of the State, which is used for the transportation of passengers for hire,
excepting those devoted exclusively for funeral use or in operation of a
metropolitan transit authority or public utility under the laws of the State.
PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, roadway, alley or other public thoroughfare open to
the use of the public, as a matter of right for purpose of travel excepting
bridle paths.
RADIO CITY DRIVE: That portion of Illinois State Highway Route 29 located
within the boundaries and confines of the Village shall be and is designated
and named "Radio City Drive".
For numbering purposes, the east side of the highway boulevard shall be odd-
numbered and the west side of the highway boulevard shall be numbered even.
Each parcel or improvement shall be administratively assigned such number in
accordance with the scheme as administratively determined by the Board of
Trustees, and filed with the office of the Village Clerk.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD SIGNALS OR SIGNS: Any sign, signal or device erected in accordance
with the laws governing same and intended to give notice of the presence of
railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing another vehicle
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a public way between the regularly established curb
lines or that part improved and intended to be used for vehicular travel.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle of the school division operated by or for a
public or governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization
that is used to transport children to or from school or in connection with any
school activity, but not including buses operated by common carriers in urban
transportation of school children.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a public way between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING: When prohibited, means any stopping or standing of
a vehicle whether occupied or not except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
STOP; WHEN REQUIRED: Complete cessation from movement.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purpose of vehicular travel.
TERRITORY OF THE VILLAGE: The territory within the corporate limits of the
Village and the territory outside the limits of the Village which is owned by
the Village and does not lie within the incorporated limits of another
municipality and unincorporated territory surrounded by the Village. It shall
also cover all territory over which the Village may from time to time be
permitted by the statutes of the State to exercise jurisdiction to the maximum
extent permitted. This Title shall extend to and cover all of said territory.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right of way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or yield
sign, when signs are erected as provided in this Chapter.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any public way for purposes of travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices placed or
erected under due authority for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
TRUCK LOADING ZONE: A designated space adjacent to a curb for the use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter of a mile or more.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign, means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left, but when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection.
Whenever any words and phrases used in this Chapter are not defined in this
Section and are not defined in the State Motor Vehicle Code, such words shall
be given their usual customary meanings. (Ord. 337, 12-8-1980; amd. Ord. 570,
6-8-1992)
9-1-1-3: UNLAWFUL MOVING OF VEHICLES:
No person, other than a police officer, shall move a vehicle not lawfully under
his control, into any area where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited or
away from a curb or edge of roadway such distance as is unlawful, or start or
cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change or move
the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other mechanism, of a parked motor
vehicle, to a position other than that in which it was left by the owner or
driver thereof, or attempt to do so. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-4: PUTTING GLASS AND OTHER DESTRUCTIVE MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY:
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottles,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal or vehicle upon such highway.
   (B)   Any person who drop or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway from
such vehicle. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-5: ACCIDENT REPORTS REQUIRED:
The operator of a vehicle involved in any accident resulting in injury or death
of any person or property damage to the property of another, if such operator
is physically capable of doing so, shall immediately report such accident to
the Police Department. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-6: DUTY ON STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is unattended
shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the
operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the driver and
owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave in a
conspicuous place on the vehicle struck a written notice giving name and
address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking and a
statement of the circumstances thereof. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-7: DUTY ON STRIKING FIXTURES OR OTHER PROPERTY:
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to
fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a public way shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or persons in charge of such
property of such fact and of his name and address and of the registration
number of the vehicle he is driving and shall upon request, and, if available,
exhibit his operator's or chauffeur's license. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-8: PERMITS FOR PARADES OR PROCESSIONS:
No procession or parade containing fifty (50) or more persons or ten (10) or
more vehicles excepting the Armed Forces of the United States, the military
forces of this State, the forces of the Police and Fire Departments and any
funeral processions, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in
accordance with a permit issued by the Traffic Engineer and such other
regulations that are set forth in this Chapter which may apply. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-9: DESIGNATION AND RIGHT OF WAY OF FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   (A)   All motor vehicles participating in a funeral procession, when
proceeding to any place of burial, shall display illuminated headlamps thereon
and shall carry on the right- hand side of the windshield thereof a printed
sign or card on which is imprinted the word "funeral".
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the undertaker having charge of a funeral
procession to provide a card or sign as described herein.
   (C)   All motor vehicles so designated shall have right of way over all
other vehicles, except fire apparatus, ambulances and police vehicles, at any
roadway intersection within the Village and may proceed through stop streets or
signalized intersections with proper caution and safety. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-10: DUTIES OF DRIVERS IN FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right-hand edge
of the roadway as practicable and safe. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-11: PICKING UP HITCHHIKERS PROHIBITED:
No person operating a private vehicle shall pick up any person standing in a
roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-12: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   (A)   Seating: The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, and the operator shall
not permit more than one other person to ride thereon nor shall such other
person ride on the motorcycle unless it is designed to carry two (2) people, in
which event the passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and regular
seat or saddle if it is designed for two (2) persons, or astride another seat
or saddle firmly attached to the rear of the operator; however, any seat or
saddle designed for a passenger must be equipped with permanent handgrips and,
in addition, the motorcycle must be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit
such passenger. A sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional
persons may ride.
   (B)   Glasses, Goggles: In addition, the operator of a motorcycle and every
passenger thereon shall be protected by glasses, goggles or a transparent
shield.
   (C)   Handlebars: No motorcycle may be operated with handlebars rising more
than fifteen inches (15") in height above the level of the seat or saddle.
   (D)   Motor Scooters: No person other than the driver thereof shall ride
upon a motor scooter. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-13: OPENING VEHICLE DOORS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any occupant of a motor vehicle stopped on
any public street within the Village to open any door of such vehicle in such a
manner as to create a hazard to approaching traffic or any person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to allow any door
of such vehicle to remain open in such a manner as to create a hazard to
approaching traffic or any person. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-14: BOARDING, ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-15: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   (A)   No person may drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the driver
to the front or sides of the vehicle or so to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle may ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-16: RIDING IN HOUSE TRAILERS PROHIBITED:
No person or persons shall occupy a house trailer while it is being moved upon
a public highway or street within the corporate limits of the Village. (1971
Code)
9-1-1-17: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PUSHCARTS, ANIMALS:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this Chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this Chapter which by their very nature can have no
application. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-18: COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, TOY VEHICLES:
No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to the duties applicable to pedestrians. (This
Section shall not apply upon any street set aside as a play street as
authorized by the provisions of this Code.) (1971 Code)
9-1-1-19: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle, motorcycle,
sled or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or his vehicle to any
moving motor vehicle or wagon. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-20: RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board,
bumpers, top or outside step of any vehicle. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-21: PRIVILEGES OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law
or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise
the privileges set forth in this Section, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Code.
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation.
      3.   Exceed the speed limits.
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle apply
if such vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust
whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with
at least one lighted lamp displaying an oscillating, rotating or flashing red
beam visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle, nor need the driver
of a police vehicle while in motion sound an audible signal by bell, siren or
exhaust whistle if such police vehicle is displaying an oscillating, rotating
or flashing red beam described heretofore.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1971 Code)
9-1-1-22: EXEMPTION OF VEHICLES ENGAGED IN REPAIR:
The provisions of this Title regulating the movement and parking of vehicles
shall not apply to persons, equipment or vehicles while actually engaged in
installing, repairing, or otherwise improving streets or street pavements.
(1971 Code)
ARTICLE II. ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-2-1: Obedience Required
9-1-2-2: Obedience By Public Employees
9-1-2-3: Obedience To Police Officers
9-1-2-4: Fleeing Or Attempting To Elude Police Officers
9-1-2-5: Authority Of And Obedience To A Fire Department Official At Scene Of
Fire
9-1-2-1: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required in this traffic code. (1971 Code)
9-1-2-2: OBEDIENCE BY PUBLIC EMPLOYEES:
The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the services of the United States, the State or any
political subdivision thereof, and it shall be unlawful for any said driver to
violate any of the provisions of this Code except as otherwise permitted in
this Code or by State statute with reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
(1971 Code)
9-1-2-3: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer invested by law with authority to direct, control
or regulate traffic. (1971 Code)
9-1-2-4: FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICERS:
It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having
been given a visual or audible signal by a peace officer directing such driver
or operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, to wilfully fail or refuse to obey
such direction, to increase his speed, to extinguish his lights, or to
otherwise flee or attempt to elude the officer. The signal given by the peace
officer may be by hand, voice, siren, red or blue light. Provided, the officer
giving such signal shall be in police uniform, and, if driving a vehicle, such
vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police vehicle. (1971
Code)
9-1-2-5: AUTHORITY OF AND OBEDIENCE TO A FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL AT SCENE OF
FIRE:
The Fire Department officer in command or any fireman designated by him, may
exercise the power of authority of a policeman in directing traffic at the
scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to an emergency
call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene in the absence of
or in assisting the police.
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Department officer when exercising the above authority.
(1971 Code)
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
9-1-3-1: Signs And Signals
9-1-3-2: Traffic-Control Signal Legend
9-1-3-3: Flashing Signals
9-1-3-4: Pedestrian Control Signals
9-1-3-5: Unauthorized Signs
9-1-3-6: Interference With Signs Or Signals
9-1-3-7: Placement Of Sign, Signals And Markings To Be Deemed Notice Of
Regulations
9-1-3-1: SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions
of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the corporate
authorities or in accordance with the laws of the State, excepting on direction
of a police officer.
All signs and signals established by the direction of the governing body shall
conform to chapter 11, article 3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-301 et seq.
9-1-3-2: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the words
"GO", "CAUTION" or "STOP" or exhibiting different colored lights successively,
the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Circular Green Alone Or The Word "GO":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk, unless directed otherwise by a pedestrian
signal.
   (B)   Steady Yellow Or The Word "CAUTION":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter or the related green
movement is being terminated, and shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in safety, a
vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      2.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal, a pedestrian
facing such signal is thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross
the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross shall yield the right of
way.
   (C)   Steady Red Alone Or The Word "STOP":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line; if there is no such line, then vehicles shall stop
before entering such crosswalk and shall remain standing until the green
indication is shown, unless otherwise directed by a sign or arrow.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic or unless a
separate "walk" indication is shown.
   (D)   Green Arrow, Straight Through Or Turn: Vehicular traffic facing the
signal may enter the intersection only to make the movement or movements
indicated by the arrows, but shall not interfere with other traffic or endanger
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk.
   (E)   Applicability: In the event an official traffic-control signal or
flashing red signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an
intersection the provisions of this Section shall be applicable except as to
provisions by which their nature can have no application. Any stop required
shall be at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall
be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made
at the signal. (1971 Code)
9-1-3-3: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require obedience
by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution. (1971 Code)
9-1-3-4: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibit the words "WALK" or "DON'T
WALK" are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Walk: Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Don't Walk: While the "DON'T WALK" signal is illuminated, either
steady or flashing, no pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partly completed his
crossing during the "WALK" indication shall proceed to the sidewalk or safety
island, if one is provided. (1971 Code)
9-1-3-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall
any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street any other
sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or
effectiveness of any traffic- control device or any railroad sign or signal,
and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit
upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
   (B)   No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so placed, maintained,
allowed to remain or displayed upon either public or private property in such a
manner as to hide from view or interfere with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of any traffic-control devices, sign or signal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in view of any street or
highway any flashing or rotating beacon of light.
   (D)   All such unauthorized devices are hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and may be removed by any policeman. (1971 Code)
9-1-3-6: INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere with
any official traffic sign or signal. (1971 Code)
9-1-3-7: PLACEMENT OF SIGN, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS TO BE DEEMED NOTICE OF
REGULATIONS:
All signs, signals, devices and markings installed or placed upon any street by
direction of the Board of Trustees or any officer of the State having authority
to do so shall be taken and deemed to be notice to all persons using such
streets of the regulations applicable thereto and failure to conform to such
regulation shall be deemed to be a violation of this Code. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE IV. OPERATION OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-1-4-1: State Operator's License Required
9-1-4-2: Drivers To Exercise Care For Pedestrians
9-1-4-4: Driving On The Right Side Of Roadway
9-1-4-5: One-Way Traffic
9-1-4-6: Overtaking A Vehicle On The Left
9-1-4-7: Limitations On Overtaking On The Left
9-1-4-8: When Overtaking On The Right Permitted
9-1-4-9: Overtaking At Intersections
9-1-4-10: Approaching, Overtaking School Buses
9-1-4-11: Obedience To Stop Signs, Signal Lights
9-1-4-12: Authorized Stop Signs, Signal Lights
9-1-4-13: Avoiding Traffic At Stop Signs, Signal Lights
9-1-4-14: Right Of Way At Unmarked Intersections
9-1-4-15: Vehicles Entering Through Street Or Intersection
9-1-4-16: Obedience To Yield Right-Of-Way Signs
9-1-4-17: Authorized Yield Right-Of-Way Signs
9-1-4-18: Stop Before Emerging From Alley, Driveway, Building
9-1-4-19: Stop Required When Traffic Obstructed
9-1-4-20: Stop For Pedestrians At Stop Intersections
9-1-4-21: Stop For Pedestrians In Crosswalks
9-1-4-22: Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Train
9-1-4-23: Required Position And Method For Turning At Intersections
9-1-4-24: U-Turns
9-1-4-25: Authorized No-Turn Signs
9-1-4-25/4: Transporting A Child Under The Age Of Eight
9-1-4-25/4(a): Transporting A Child Over The Age of Eight But Under The Age Of
Sixteen
9-1-4-25/4(b): Transporting A Child Over The Age Of Eight But Under The Age Of
Nineteen
9-1-4-26: Signaling Intention To Turn
9-1-4-27: Signal By Hand And Arm, Signal Device
9-1-4-28: Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals
9-1-4-29: Use Of Horn
9-1-4-30: Use Of Headlamps
9-1-4-31: Speed Restrictions
9-1-4-32: Speed Limits In School Zones
9-1-4-33: Minimum Speed
9-1-4-34: Coasting
9-1-4-35: Following Too Closely
9-1-4-36: Starting Stopped, Standing Or Parked Vehicle; Unnecessary Noise
Prohibited
9-1-4-37: Driving Through Processions
9-1-4-38: Driving On Play Streets
9-1-4-39: Driving On Sidewalks
9-1-4-40: Driving Through Safety Zone
9-1-4-41: Driving Across Median Dividers
9-1-4-42: Driving On Wet Paint Markings Prohibited
9-1-4-43: Limitations On Backing
9-1-4-44: Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
9-1-4-45: Operation Of Vehicles At Scene Of Fire
9-1-4-46: Towing Or Pushing Vehicles Regulated
9-1-4-47: Reckless Driving
9-1-4-48: Drag Racing
9-1-4-51: Trains And Certain Other Track-Type Vehicles At Railroad Grade
Crossings
9-1-4-52: Vehicles Obstructing Traffic
9-1-4-53: Cruising Of Public Passenger Vehicles
9-1-4-54: Trucks Prohibited On Certain Streets
9-1-4-55: Limited Load Streets
9-1-4-56: Village Employees
9-1-4-101: Drivers Must Have Licenses Or Permits
9-1-4-303: Driving While Driver's License, Permit Or Privilege Is Suspended Or
Revoked
9-1-4-305: Obedience To And Required Traffic-Control Devices
9-1-4-501: Driving While Under The Influence Of Alcohol, Other Drug, Or
Combination Of Both
9-1-4-502: Transportation Or Possession Of Alcoholic Liquor In A Motor Vehicle
9-1-4-601: General Speed Restrictions
9-1-4-603.1: Driver And Passenger Required To Use Safety Belts
9-1-4-707: Operation Of Uninsured Motor Vehicle; Penalty
9-1-4-709: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
9-1-4-1: STATE OPERATOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, except those persons exempted by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
102, shall operate a motor vehicle in this Village without first securing a
State operator's or chauffeur's license, which operator's or chauffeur's
license card or badge shall be carried on or about the person so operating the
motor vehicle and shall be available for inspection by any authorized person as
herein provided. However, no person charged with violating this Section shall
be convicted if he produces in court or the office of the arresting officer
satisfactory evidence that a driver's license was theretofore issued to him and
was valid at the time of arrest. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-2: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE CARE FOR PEDESTRIANS:
Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding a horn when
necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any
confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-4: DRIVING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right
half of the roadway, except as follows:
   (A)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
   (B)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (C)   On a one-way street.
   (D)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than normal speed of
traffic at the time and the place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (E)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public
highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
under shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-5: ONE-WAY TRAFFIC:
Upon a roadway designated and a sign posted for one-way traffic, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction indicated. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-6: OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT:
The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the road.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two (2) wheeled vehicle when passing on the left of
one vehicle may not pass on the right of another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-7: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT:
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
   (B)   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any
other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the highway
where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
      3.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right, or a double yellow colored center line is marked on the roadway.
      4.   The limitations in subsections (B)1 and (B)2 of this Section shall
not apply upon a one-way roadway or upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement
of sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each
direction when such movement can be made with safety. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-8: WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT PERMITTED:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn, providing there
is sufficient safe clearance distance between the turning vehicle and the right
edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right of a one-way street or on a roadway with
unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for four (4) or more lanes of moving
traffic when such movement can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the
pavement or roadway in overtaking or passing on the right. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-9: OVERTAKING AT INTERSECTIONS:
Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake or
pass such stopped vehicle until the pedestrian has cleared such overtaking
driver's traffic lane. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-10: APPROACHING, OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUSES:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon a street or highway within the Village,
upon meeting or overtaking, from either direction, any school bus which has
stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, shall stop
the vehicle before reaching the school bus where there is in operation on the
school bus a visual signal, and said driver shall not proceed until the school
bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed, or the
visual signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof plainly visible signs containing the words
"SCHOOL BUS" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height, and in
addition shall be equipped with visual signals meeting the requirements of the
State law which shall be actuated by the driver of said school bus whenever the
brakes are applied. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-11: OBEDIENCE TO STOP SIGNS, SIGNAL LIGHTS:
When stop signs or signal lights are erected as herein provided at or near the
entrance to any intersection, every operator of a vehicle shall stop such
vehicle at such stop sign or stop signal light or at a clearly marked stop line
before entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a police
officer. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-12: AUTHORIZED STOP SIGNS, SIGNAL LIGHTS:
In accordance with the provisions of Section
9-1-4-11 of this Article and when signs and signal lights are erected giving
notice thereof, all vehicular traffic shall come to a stop on the streets
described in Chapter 2 of this Title. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-13: AVOIDING TRAFFIC AT STOP SIGNS, SIGNAL LIGHTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle upon or across any
private drive for the purpose of evading the provisions of this Chapter in
regard to "STOP" and "GO" signals and stop signs erected along through streets.
(1971 Code)
9-1-4-14: RIGHT OF WAY AT UNMARKED INTERSECTIONS:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
roadway.
   (B)   When two (2) vehicles enter an intersection from different streets at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in subsections (A) and (B) of this
Section are modified at through streets as provided elsewhere in Section
9-1-4-15 of this Article. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-15: VEHICLES ENTERING THROUGH STREET OR INTERSECTION:
   (A)   After the operator of a vehicle has stopped at the entrance to a
through street, such operator shall yield the right of way to other vehicles
which have entered the intersection from said through street or which are
approaching so closely on said through street as to constitute an immediate
hazard, but said operator having so yielded, may proceed and the operators of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection on said through street shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle so proceeding into or across the through
street.
   (B)   After the operator of a vehicle has stopped in obedience to a stop
sign, at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances
thereto although not a part of a through street, such operator shall proceed
cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the
intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard,
but may then proceed. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-16: OBEDIENCE TO YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS:
Where preference is given to traffic through any intersection on any roadway
and specified entrances to said intersections are designated as yield right-of-
way entrances by the erection of yield right-of-way signs:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle in obedience to a yield right of way sign
shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions or shall stop
if necessary and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have
entered the intersection roadway either from the right or left or which are
approaching so closely on said intersecting roadway as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as
a safe interval occurs.
   (B)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection, or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right
of way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right of way. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-17: AUTHORIZED YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS:
In accordance with the provisions of Section
9-1-4-11 of this Article and when "YIELD RIGHT OF WAY" signs are erected giving
notice thereof, all vehicles traveling on the streets described in Chapter 3 of
this Title shall yield the right of way at the designated intersections. (1971
Code)
9-1-4-18: STOP BEFORE EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway, yielding the right of way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-19: STOP REQUIRED WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No operator of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or crosswalk unless there
is sufficient space beyond such intersection or crosswalk in the direction in
which such vehicle is proceeding to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicular traffic or pedestrians, not withstanding any
traffic-control signal indication to proceed. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-20: STOP FOR PEDESTRIANS AT STOP INTERSECTIONS:
Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection or at
plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk and pedestrians within or entering the
crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right of way over
vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right of way to
pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall
also yield the right of way to pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the
intersection. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-21: STOP FOR PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS:
When the movement of traffic is not controlled by official traffic-control
signals or a police officer, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of
way, slowing down or stopping if need be so to yield, to a pedestrian crossing
the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the
roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-22: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN:
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this Section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest rail of
such railroad, and shall not proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing
requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a train.
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a train.
      3.   A train approaching within approximately one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500') of the street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such a distance and such train by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard.
      4.   An approaching train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any
school bus carrying any school children, or any vehicle carrying explosives or
flammable liquid as cargo shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but
not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest rail of the tracks and shall
listen and look in both directions along such track from which a train might
come before proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing. Provided, that
no such stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a
traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-23: REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD FOR TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
and such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered.
   (D)   If the Village has placed markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent
to intersections, thereby requiring and directing that a different course from
that specified in this Section be traveled by vehicles turning at an
intersection, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection
other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees of this Village may cause markers, buttons,
signs or signals to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby
require and direct that a different course from that specified in this Article
be traveled by vehicles at an intersection, and when markers, buttons, signs or
signals are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons,
signs and signals. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-24: U-TURNS:
The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street or part of any street where such turns are
prohibited by a traffic signal or sign so posted, or at any point closer than
one hundred feet (100') to any street intersection, or upon any curve, or upon
the approach to a grade, or near the crest of a grade, or where such vehicle
cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from either
direction within five hundred feet (500') or when such turn cannot be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-25: AUTHORIZED NO-TURN SIGNS:
In accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-1-4-23(D) and section
9-1-4-24 of this article and whenever authorized markers, buttons or signs or
signals are erected indicating that no right or left turn or turn in the
opposite direction is permitted, or only indications that only a left turn or
only a right turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey any
direction of any such marker, button, sign or signal. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-25/4: TRANSPORTING A CHILD UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHT:
When any person is transporting a child in this State under the age of eight
(8) years in a non-commercial motor vehicle of the first division, any truck or
truck tractor that is equipped with seat safety belts, any other motor vehicle
of the second division with a gross vehicle weight rating of nine thousand
(9,000) pounds or less, or a recreational vehicle on the roadways, streets or
highways of this State, such person shall be responsible for providing for the
protection of such child by properly securing him or her in an appropriate
child restraint system. The parent or legal guardian of a child under the age
of 8 years shall provide a child restraint system to any person who transports
his or her child.
When any person is transporting a child in this State who Is under the age of
two (2) years in a motor vehicle of the first division or motor vehicle of the
second division weighing nine thousand (9,000) pounds or less, he or she shall
be responsible for properly securing the child in a rear-facing child restraint
system, unless the child weighs forty (40) or more pounds or is forty (40) or
more inches tall.
For purposes of this Section and Section 4b, "child restraint system" means any
device which meets the standards of the United States Department of
Transportation designed to restrain, seat or position children, which also
includes a booster seat.
A child weighing more than forty (40) pounds may be transported in the back
seat of a motor vehicle while wearing only a lap belt if the back seat of the
motor vehicle is not equipped with a combination lap and shoulder belt.
For purposes of this Section, "child restraint system" means any device which
meets the standards of the United States Department of Transportation
designated to restrain, seat or position children. (Ord. 701, 4-9-2001; amd.
Ord. 1034, 1-27-2020)
9-1-4-25/4(a): TRANSPORTING A CHILD OVER THE AGE OF EIGHT BUT UNDER THE AGE OF
SIXTEEN:
Every person, when transporting a child 8 years of age or older but under the
age of 16, as provided in Section 4 of this Act, shall be responsible for
properly securing that child in seat belts.  (Ord. 702, 4-9-2001; amd. Ord.
1035, 1-27-2020)
9-1-4-25/4(b): TRANSPORTING A CHILD OVER THE AGE OF EIGHT BUT UNDER THE AGE OF
NINETEEN:
Children eight (8) years of age or older but under the age of nineteen (19);
seat belts. Every person under the age of eighteen (18) years, when
transporting a child eight (8) years of age or older but under the age of
nineteen (19) years, as provided in Section 4 of this Act, shall be responsible
for securing that child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt or
an appropriate child restraint system. (Ord. 703, 4-9-2001; amd. Ord. 1036, 1-
27-2020)
9-1-4-26: SIGNALING INTENTION TO TURN:
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in section
9-1-4-23 of this article or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person may so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning within a business or residence district,
and such signal must be given continuously during not less than the last two
hundred feet (200') traveled by the vehicle before turning outside a business
or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give such a signal.
   (D)   An electric turn signal device must be used to indicate an intention
to turn, change lanes or start from a parallel parked position but must not be
flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled vehicle or flashed as a
courtesy or "DO PASS" signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from
the rear. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-27: SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM, SIGNAL DEVICE:
Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by means of
the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-28: METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
   (A)   Left Turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (B)   Right Turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
   (C)   Stop Or Decrease Of Speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-29: USE OF HORN:
Every motor vehicle of the first and second division when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
two hundred feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device shall emit an
unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a whistle.
The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably necessary to ensure safe
operation give audible warning with a horn but shall not otherwise use the horn
when upon the highway. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-30: USE OF HEADLAMPS:
   (A)   Whenever the driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving
headlamp or headlamps is within five hundred feet (500') of another vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction, the driver shall dim or drop such
headlamp or headlamps.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving headlamp
or headlamps shall dim or drop such headlamp or headlamps when there is another
vehicle traveling in the same direction less than three hundred feet (300') to
the front of him. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-31: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Speed Limits: The provisions of article VI of the "Rules of the Road",
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-601 et seq., shall be applicable on all
streets within and under the jurisdiction of the Village.
The absolute statutory urban speed limit shall be thirty (30) miles per hour in
streets and fifteen (15) miles per hour in alleys. The absolute statutory
nonurban speed limit shall be fifty five (55) miles per hour. Where it has been
determined on the basis of an engineering or traffic investigation that the
said speed limits are greater or less than is reasonable or safe with respect
to the conditions found to exist at any place or along any part or zone of any
street or highway, but not of any alley, the said urban speed limits may be
increased but not in excess of fifty five (55) miles per hour and may be
diminished but not to less than twenty (20) miles per hour and said nonurban
speed limits may be diminished but not to less than thirty five (35) miles per
hour, when such determination is approved by an ordinance of the Village Board
of Trustees. Such ordinances altering said speed limits shall be enforceable
when appropriate signs giving notice of the limits are erected at the proper
places or along the proper part or zone of the street or highway. Such
ordinances shall be considered amendments to this subsection (A) and the
alterations in speed limits resulting therefrom are set forth in Chapter 4 of
this Title. (Ord. 284, 1-10-1977)
   (B)   Driving At Greater Speed Than Reasonable And Proper For Traffic
Conditions, Etc.; Duty To Decrease Speed Under Certain Circumstances: No person
shall drive any vehicle upon any street in this Village at a speed which is
more than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and the
use of the street, which endangers the safety of any person or property, or is
more than the applicable maximum speed limits established by subsection (A) of
this Section and Section
9-1-4-32 of this Article. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed
the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions; and the
driver of every vehicle shall decrease his speed to such extent as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering a street
in compliance with the legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use
due care. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-32: SPEED LIMITS IN SCHOOL ZONES:
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any
public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from school
during school days when school children are present.
   (B)   The Traffic Engineer shall have erected and posted appropriate signs
upon the streets and highways giving proper due warning that a school zone is
being approached and shall indicate the school zone and maximum speed limit in
effect during school days when school children are present. (1971 Code)
   (C)   The following roadways are hereby designated as authorized school
zones:
North Main Street from the intersection of Morgan Street and Main Street to the
intersection of Elm Street and Main Street.
Elm Street from the intersection of Elm and Allen Street to the intersection of
Rogers Road in the corporate limits of the Village.
Lee Street from the intersection of Lee Street and Main Street to the
intersection of Lee Street and McArthur.
McArthur from the intersection of Bradley Street and McArthur to the
intersection of McArthur and State Street. (Ord. 662, 9-14-1998)
9-1-4-33: MINIMUM SPEED:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with the law.
(1971 Code)
9-1-4-34: COASTING:
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a downgrade shall
not coast with the gears of such vehicle in "neutral" position.
   (B)   The driver of a motor vehicle designed to carry either freight or more
than seven (7) passengers when traveling upon a downgrade shall not coast with
the clutch disengaged. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-35: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-36: STARTING STOPPED, STANDING OR PARKED VEHICLE; UNNECESSARY NOISE
PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No person shall move a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked on
any traffic way unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable
safety.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle which is stopped,
standing or parked to so quickly accelerate such vehicle as to cause the tires
of such vehicle to emit screeching, squealing or otherwise offensive sounds due
to the spin of accelerated tires on the roadway. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-37: DRIVING THROUGH PROCESSIONS:
No operator of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles, persons or animals
comprising a funeral or other authorized procession except when otherwise
directed by a police officer.
This provision shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in
this Chapter. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-38: DRIVING ON PLAY STREETS:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as
a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon such street or portion
thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed areas, and then any such driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-39: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-40: DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE:
No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone. (1971
Code)
9-1-4-41: DRIVING ACROSS MEDIAN DIVIDERS:
Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two (2) roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
shall be driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven
over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except
through an opening in such barrier, dividing section or space, or at a
crossover or intersection established by public authority. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-42: DRIVING ON WET PAINT MARKINGS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive on or across any
freshly painted roadway marking, when such marking is clearly evidenced to
still be wet by virtue of painting equipment in operation upon or near said
markings. The temporary placement of rubber marking cones or similar devices
along or upon any pavement marking shall similarly give evidence that such
markings are wet. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-43: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with safety and without interfering with other traffic. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-44: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals or a police vehicle making use of an audible
or visual signal, the driver of every other vehicle on the same roadway shall
yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to
and as close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of
any intersection and shall stop if possible and remain in such position until
the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by
a police officer.
   (B)   Subsection (A) of this Section shall not operate to relieve the driver
of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for
the safety of all persons using the highway. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-45: OPERATION OF VEHICLES AT SCENE OF FIRE:
Upon the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles shall
comply with the provisions of this Article relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
   (A)   Following Fire Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any
vehicle, other than one on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or to drive into
or park such vehicle within the block where the fire vehicles have stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over an unprotected
hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-46: TOWING OR PUSHING VEHICLES REGULATED:
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby, and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of a structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
   (B)   Outside a business, residential or suburban district, no vehicle other
than a pole trailer or a semitrailer which is being towed by a truck trailer
and is connected by the means of a fifth wheel shall be towed on a roadway
except by a drawbar and such vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be coupled
with two (2) cables or safety chains to the towing vehicle. Such chains or
cables shall be of sufficient size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle
from parting from the drawing vehicle in case the drawbar should break or
become disengaged.
   (C)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a yellow
flag or cloth not less than sixteen inches (16") square.
   (D)   No person shall push a vehicle with another vehicle upon any public
way for a distance greater than six hundred feet (600').
   (E)   Every disabled vehicle being pushed or towed on any public way between
the hour of sunset and the hour of sunrise shall display a red light plainly
visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the side and
rear thereof. Said red light shall be in addition to any other lights required
by any law or ordinance.
   (F)   No person shall drive any vehicle pushing or towing a disabled vehicle
at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard to the
traffic and the use of the way or so as to endanger life or limb or injure the
property of any person. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-47: RECKLESS DRIVING:
   (A)   Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or wanton disregard
for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.
   (B)   Every person convicted of reckless driving shall be punished upon a
first conviction by fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and on a second or subsequent
conviction shall be punished by a fine of not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1971 Code)
9-1-4-48: DRAG RACING:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, as an operator of a motor
vehicle, to participate in drag racing. For the purposes of this Section, "drag
racing" means the act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any
street or highway in the Village in a situation in which one of the motor
vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing
driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing
or overtaking him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more
individuals competing in a race against time on any street or highway within
the village.
   (B)   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is convicted of
being a participant in drag racing shall be punished upon a first conviction by
a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and on a second or subsequent conviction shall be
punished by a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1971 Code)
9-1-4-51: TRAINS AND CERTAIN OTHER TRACK TYPE VEHICLES AT RAILROAD GRADE
CROSSINGS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any railroad corporation, through its
engineers or conductors or other employees or agents, to obstruct any public
street or highway in this village with any train, locomotive engine or railroad
car on its tracks, where the tracks intersect or cross such public street or
highway in such a manner as to prevent the use of such street or highway for
purposes of motor vehicle travel for a period of time longer than five (5)
minutes except under circumstances where the railroad train, locomotive engine
or railroad car cannot be moved without endangering the safety of passengers,
the public or freight.
   (B)   No person shall operate or move any track type vehicle, steam shovel,
derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating speed
of six (6) or less miles per hour or a vertical body or road clearance of less
than nine inches (9") above the level surface of a roadway upon or across any
tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with subsections
(C) through (E) of this section.
   (C)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a
superintendent of such railroad and a reasonable time to be given to such
railroad to provide proper protection at such crossing.
   (D)   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than ten feet
(10') nor more than fifty feet (50') from the nearest rail of such railway and
while so stopped shall listen and look in both directions along such track for
any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and
shall not proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   (E)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-52: VEHICLES OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
The operator of a vehicle shall not operate or allow the same to remain upon
any street in such manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic
thereon. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-53: CRUISING OF PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLES:
No operator of a public passenger vehicle shall solicit business in such manner
as to interfere with the lawful movement of traffic. (1971 Code)
9-1-4-54: TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to operate a truck upon any street where truck operation
is prohibited by ordinance and where such signs of prohibition are posted,
except that a truck may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum
distance necessary for the purpose of making deliveries or picking up loads.
(1971 Code)
9-1-4-55: LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street in the village when
the gross weight on the surface of the road of said vehicle exceeds sixteen
thousand (16,000) pounds. Where lower limits are imposed by ordinance and signs
indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be unlawful to operate a
vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except for the purpose of
making delivery or picking up a load, in which case such vehicle may be driven
on such street for not more than the minimum distance.
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The police may, upon stopping said
truck or vehicle, halt the same until the load is removed to reduce the gross
weight to less than sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds before such vehicle is
authorized to proceed. (Ord. 873, 1-26-2009)
9-1-4-56: VILLAGE EMPLOYEES:
All Village employees are hereby required to wear the provided seat belts while
operating Village equipment in any capacity. (Ord. 635, 8-11-1997)
9-1-4-101: DRIVERS MUST HAVE LICENSES OR PERMITS:
No person, except those expressly exempted by section 6-102 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, shall drive any motor vehicle upon a public highway unless such
person has a valid license or permit, or a restricted driving permit, issued
under the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle unless he holds a valid license or
permit, or a restricted driving permit issued under the provisions of section
6-205, 6-206 or 6-113 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 649, 3-23-1998)
9-1-4-303: DRIVING WHILE DRIVER'S LICENSE, PERMIT OR PRIVILEGE IS SUSPENDED OR
REVOKED:
Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle on
any roadway or highway at a time when such person's driver's license, permit or
privilege to do so or the privilege to obtain a driver's license or permit is
revoked or suspended as provided by the Illinois Vehicle Code or the law of
another state, except as may be specifically allowed by a judicial driving
permit, family financial responsibility driving permit, probationary license to
drive, or a restricted driving permit issued pursuant to this Code or under the
law of another state, shall be guilty of driving without a valid license. (Ord.
650, 3-23-1998)
9-1-4-305: OBEDIENCE TO AND REQUIRED TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic- control device.
   (C)   No provision of this Section or the Illinois Vehicle Code for which
official traffic-control devices are required shall be enforced against an
alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation an official
device is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that
official traffic-control devices are required, such section shall be effective
even though no devices are erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of the Illinois Vehicle
Code and purports to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such
device, such device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the
official act or direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements
of the Illinois Vehicle Code unless the contrary shall be established by
competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing such vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
intersection in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a stop
sign. (Ord. 651, 3-23-1998)
9-1-4-501: DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL, OTHER DRUG, OR
COMBINATION OF BOTH:
   (A)   A person shall not drive or be in actual physical control of any
vehicle on any roadway or highway while:
      1.   The alcohol concentration in the person's blood or breath is 0.08 or
more based upon the definition of blood and breath units in section 11-501.2 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code or the law of another state.
      2.   Under the influence of alcohol;
      3.   Under the influence of any other drug or combination of drugs to a
degree that renders the person incapable of safely driving;
      4.   Under the combined influence of alcohol and any other drug or drugs
to a degree that renders the person incapable of safely driving; or
      5.   There is any amount of a drug, substance or compound in the person's
blood or urine resulting from the unlawful use or consumption of cannabis in
the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, or a controlled substance listed in the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act.
   (B)   The fact that any person charged with violating this section is or has
been legally entitled to use alcohol or other drugs or any combination of both
shall not constitute a defense against any charge of violating this section.
(Ord. 652, 3-23-1998)
   (C)   Every person who is convicted of violating this section or a similar
provision of local ordinance shall be subject to the same penalties provided
for by the state of Illinois for violation of section 11-501 of the Illinois
vehicle code. (Ord. 708, 6-25-2001)
   (D)   After a finding of guilt and prior to any final sentencing, or an
order for supervision, for an offense based upon an arrest for a violation of
this section, individuals shall be required to undergo a professional
evaluation to determine if an alcohol or other drug abuse problem exists and
the extent of the problem. Programs conducting these evaluations shall be
licensed by the Illinois department of human services. The cost of any
professional evaluation shall be paid for by the individual required to undergo
the professional evaluation. (Ord. 652, 3-23-1998)
   (E)   In addition to any other penalties and liabilities, a person who is
found guilty of violating this section shall be fined one hundred dollars
($100.00), payable to the circuit clerk, who shall distribute the money to the
law enforcement agency that made the arrest. In the event that more than one
agency is responsible for the arrest, the one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall
be shared equally. Any monies received by a law enforcement agency under this
subsection shall be used to purchase law enforcement equipment that will assist
in the prevention of alcohol related criminal violence throughout the state.
This shall include, but is not limited to, in car video cameras, radar and
laser speed detection devices, and alcohol breath testers. (Ord. 676, 7-26-
1999)
9-1-4-502: TRANSPORTATION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN A MOTOR VEHICLE:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (C) of this section, no driver may
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a highway in this state except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
   (B)   Except as provided in subsection (C) of this section, no passenger may
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a roadway or highway in this state except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home as defined in section 1-
145.01 of the Illinois vehicle code. However, the driver of any such vehicle is
prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in or about the
driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the driver shall be
prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this section. For the
purposes of this section, a "limousine" is a motor vehicle of the first
division with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or dividing
window used in the for hire transportation of passengers and operated by an
individual in possession of a valid Illinois driver's license of the
appropriate classification pursuant to section 6-104 of the Illinois vehicle
code.
   (D)   The exemption applicable to chartered buses under subsection (C) of
this section does not apply to any chartered bus being used for school
purposes.
   (E)   Any driver convicted of violating subsection (A) of this section shall
be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any
driver who is convicted of violating subsection (A) of this section for a
second or subsequent time within one year of a similar conviction shall be
subject to suspension of driving privileges as provided, in paragraph 23,
subsection (a), section 6-206 of the Illinois vehicle code.
   (F)   Any driver, who is less than twenty one (21) years of age at the date
of the offense and who is convicted of violating subsection (A) of this section
or a similar provision of a local ordinance, shall be subject to the loss of
driving privileges as provided in paragraph 13, subsection (a), section 6-205
and paragraph 33, subsection (a), section 6-206 of the Illinois vehicle code.
(Ord. 653, 3-23-1998)
9-1-4-601: GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this state at a speed which is
greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and the
use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or property. The fact
that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit
does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection, approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or
when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by
reasons of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the
highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to
use due care. (Ord. 654, 3-23-1998)
9-1-4-603.1: DRIVER AND PASSENGER REQUIRED TO USE SAFETY BELTS:
   (A)   Driver and passenger required to use safety belts, exceptions, and
penalty, (a) Each driver and passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a street
or highway in this State shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat
safety belt. A child less than 8 years of age shall be protected as required
pursuant to the Child Passenger Protection Act. Each driver of a motor vehicle
transporting a child 8 years of age or more, but less than 16 years of age,
shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt as
required under the Child Passenger Protection Act. Each driver of a motor
vehicle transporting a passenger who is unable, due to infirmity, illness, or
age, to properly adjust and fasten a seat safety belt and is not exempted from
wearing a seat safety belt under subsection (b) shall secure the passenger in a
properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt as required under this Section.
   (B)   Paragraph (a) shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle or
delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between stops
does not exceed 15 miles per hour.
      2.   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt.
      3.   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical, or other valid
reasons to wear a seat safety belt.
      4.   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse.
      5.   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965.
      6.   A motorcycle or motor driven cycle.
      7.   A moped.
      8.   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law.
      9.   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States postal service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier.
      10.   A driver or passenger of an authorized emergency vehicle, except
this exception does not apply to vehicles of the fire department; vehicles of
the Office of the State Fire Marshal; or ambulances, unless the delivery of
life-saving measures prohibits the use of a seat safety belt.
      11.   A back seat passenger of a taxicab.
   (C)   Failure to wear a seat safety belt in violation of this Section shall
not be considered evidence of negligence, shall not limit the liability of an
insurer, and shall not diminish any recovery for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, or operation of a motor vehicle.  (Ord. 655, 3-23-1998;
amd. Ord. 1033, 1-27-2020)
9-1-4-707: OPERATION OF UNINSURED MOTOR VEHICLE; PENALTY:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle unless the motor vehicle is covered by
a liability insurance policy in accordance with section 7-601 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
Any person who fails to comply with a request by a law enforcement officer for
display of evidences of insurance, as required under section 7-602 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, shall be deemed to be operating an uninsured motor
vehicle.
Any operator of a motor vehicle subject to registration under this Illinois
Vehicle Code who is convicted of violating this Section is guilty of a business
offense and shall be required to pay a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
However, no person charged with violating this Section shall be convicted if
such person produces in court satisfactory evidence that at the time of the
arrest the motor vehicle was covered by a liability insurance policy in
accordance with section 7-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. The chief judge of
each circuit may designate an officer of the court to review the documentation
demonstrating that at the time of arrest the motor vehicle was covered by a
liability insurance policy in accordance with section 7-601 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code. (Ord. 656, 3-23-1998)
9-1-4-709: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides for
two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
On multi-laned controlled access highways with three (3) or more lanes in one
direction or on any multi-laned highway with two (2) or more lanes in one
direction, the Department may designate lanes of traffic to be used by
different types of motor vehicles. Drivers must obey lane designation signing
except when it is necessary to use a different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device. (Ord. 657, 3-23-1998)
ARTICLE V.  STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
9-1-5-1: Unattended Vehicles
9-1-5-2: Unattended Animals
9-1-5-3: Signs
9-1-5-4: Parking At Curb
9-1-5-5: Parking In Public Alleys
9-1-5-6: Lamps On Parked Vehicles
9-1-5-7: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
9-1-5-7A: Encroachment Prohibited
9-1-5-8: Vehicles For Sale
9-1-5-9: Parking So As To Obstruct Traffic
9-1-5-10: Parking In Private Parking Lots
9-1-5-11: Authority To Prohibit Parking On Village Property
9-1-5-12: Authority To Prohibit Parking Adjacent To School, Playground
9-1-5-13: Abandonment Of Vehicles
9-1-5-14: Report Of Abandonment
9-1-5-15: Towing Of Abandoned Vehicles
9-1-5-16: Towing Report
9-1-5-17: Identity Of Owner Of Abandoned Vehicle; Notice
9-1-5-18: Notice And Sale Of Abandoned Vehicles
9-1-5-19: Reclamation By Owner Of Abandoned Vehicles
9-1-5-20: Disposition Report
9-1-5-21: Penalties
9-1-5-22: Notice On Illegally Parked Vehicles
9-1-5-23: Parking Of Commercial Vehicles On Residential Streets Prohibited
During Certain Hours
9-1-5-24: Loading Zone
9-1-5-25: Emergency Authority To Move Vehicles
9-1-5-26: Snow Removal
9-1-5-27: Street Cleaning
9-1-5-28: Vehicle Registrant Presumed Responsible For Parking Violation
9-1-5-1: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the key, or when standing upon any perceptible grade without effectively
setting the brake thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of
the highway. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-2: UNATTENDED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in any
street without having such animal securely fastened. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-3: SIGNS:
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-4: PARKING AT CURB:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb,
except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two (2)
right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly
established curb line, except that upon those streets that have been marked for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by
such marks. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-5: PARKING IN PUBLIC ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful for an operator of any vehicle to park within a public
alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than
eight feet (8') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular
traffic. (Ord. 410, 5-7-1984)
9-1-5-6: LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
   (A)   A vehicle may be parked at nighttime without a display of lights as
provided in subsection (B) of this Section when:
      1.   The vehicle is parked upon any lighted street within a business or
residence district;
      2.   The vehicle is parked upon a street designated by ordinance as a
place where vehicles may be parked at nighttime without parking lights.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon an unlighted street or highway
during the hours between sunset and sunrise, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lamps which shall exhibit a white light on the roadway side
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle
and a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the
rear.
   (C)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed. (Ord. 410, 5-7-1984)
9-1-5-7: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection.
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at any intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the Village indicates a different length by signs or markings.
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing. (Ord. 410, 5-7-1984)
      10.   Along the driveway entrance to any fire station located within the
Village, or within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted. (Ord.
548, 8-26-1991)
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      15.   Within any designated bus zone, where such zone is marked by
signals or pavement markings.
      16.   In an alley within twenty feet (20') of the inner sidewalk line
projected across such alley.
      17.   Under the lowest portion of any fire escape.
      18.   Upon a railroad track or between any railroad track and a line
parallel with and ten feet (10') distant from the outer rail thereof.
      19.   Upon any parkway except in case of emergency.
      20.   Within twenty feet (20') of any alley entrance or exit. (1971 Code)
      21.   At any place where official signs are posted restricting parking
for handicapped persons only, unless the vehicle parking in such a posted zone
is being used for the transportation of a handicapped person or persons. Any
person violating this subsection (A)21 (handicapped parking violation) is
guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per offense. Each day such violation is committed or allowed to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. (Ord. 814, 4-9-2007)
      22.   Within fifteen feet (15') on either side of a curbside residential
mailbox from Monday - Saturday, eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:
00) P.M., when such parking actually interferes with the delivery of mail.
(Ord. 1020, 8-13-2018)
   (B)   Parking is hereby prohibited on the following streets:
      1.   Along Illinois Route 29 and along Illinois Route 98 within the
Village limits.
      2.   Along both sides of Main Street within the Village limits.
      3.   Along both sides of Elm Street within the Village limits.
      4.   Along both sides of Lee Street within the Village limits.
      5.   Along both sides of Lincoln Road within the Village limits.
      6.   Along both sides of State Street within the Village limits.
      7.   Along the entire length of Morgan Street on the north side; and from
the intersection of Sunset and Morgan Streets east a distance of forty feet
(40') along the south side of Morgan Street; and from the intersection of
Sunset and Morgan, south for a distance of forty feet (40') along the east side
of Sunset, and south for a distance of seventy two feet (72') along the west
side of Sunset.
      8.   Along both sides of Bradley Street within the Village limits.
      9.   Along both sides of Halsey Street within the Village limits.
      10.   Along the south side of Patton Street within the Village limits.
      11.   Along the east side of River Drive within the Village limits.
      12.   Along the east side of Forrest Drive within the Village limits.
      13.   Along east side of McArthur Drive, from Lincoln Boulevard to Yates
Road; and on the west side of McArthur Drive, from Yates Road south towards
Lincoln Boulevard eight hundred feet (800').
      14.   From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday only, along the west side of McArthur from State Street north
six hundred feet (600'). (Ord. 881, 9-14-2009)
   (C)   Parking is hereby prohibited in all public parks located within the
corporate limits of the Village between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 487, 2-13-1989)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, trailer, or
farm implement upon Illinois Route 98 within the Village's corporate limits.
   (E)   Any person violating this section is guilty of a petty offense and
shall be fined not less than fifteen dollars ($15.00) for a first offense. The
fine shall increase to twenty five dollars ($25.00) if not paid to the Village
Hall within ten (10) days. Any person violating this section shall be fined
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for any subsequent offense within a six (6) month
period. Each day such violation is committed or allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord.
813, 4-9-2007)
9-1-5-7A: ENCROACHMENT PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Definitions:
    ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object
of any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under, or over any portion of the project
right of way where no project right-of-way line has been established.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT: Any existing awning, marquee, or sign advertising
activity on the property, or similar overhanging structure supported from a
building immediately adjacent to the limits of the platted street where there
is a sidewalk extending to the building line and which does not impair the free
and safe flow of pedestrian traffic or traffic on the highway. The permissive
retention of overhanging signs is not to be construed as being applicable to
those signs supported from poles constructed outside the project right-of- way
line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
   PROJECT RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the Village and State which will be free of
encroachments except as defined in this subsection.
   ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simply for highway purposes, also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
   (B)   Encroachment: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to
be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any "encroachment", as defined
in subsection (A) of this Section, except as provided in subsection (C) of this
Section, within the limits of the project right of way or roadway right of way
where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
   (C)   Permits: No revocable permits have been issued by the Village for the
temporary retention of permissible encroachment.
   (D)   Penalty: Any person in violation of this Section shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and
every day which a violation continues or exists. (Ord. 648, 3-23-1998)
9-1-5-8: VEHICLES FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-9: PARKING SO AS TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC:
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than fifteen feet (15') of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic on a two-way street
or less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of
vehicular traffic on a one-way street.
   (B)   Any police officer is hereby authorized to move any vehicle parked or
left standing so as to obstruct traffic. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-10: PARKING IN PRIVATE PARKING LOTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized or invited to do so to park
a vehicle on private property or in a private parking lot, which has been
established voluntarily or pursuant to the zoning regulations of this Code to
provide for off-street parking facilities for tenants or employees of the owner
of said lot. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-11: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT PARKING ON VILLAGE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any property owned
by the Village and used for the transaction of public business where such
parking is prohibited by order of the custodian of said property. This Section
shall not apply to Village-owned vehicles or to other vehicles whose operation
is useful or essential to the proper functioning of the department, board or
commission occupying the property. The custodian of the property shall post "NO
PARKING" signs indicating the foregoing prohibition. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-12: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOL, PLAYGROUND:
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon that side of any street adjacent to any school
property or playground when such parking interferes with traffic or creates a
hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side
of a street adjacent to any school property or playground, no person shall park
a vehicle in any such designated place. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-13: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
   (A)   Abandonment Of Vehicles: The abandonment of a vehicle or any part
thereof on any highway in this Village is unlawful and subject to penalties as
set forth herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any
part thereof on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of
the general public, anywhere in this Village is unlawful except on property of
the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so
abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the
order of the Chief of the Police Department, after a waiting period of seven
(7) days or more has expired.
   (B)   Inoperable Motor Vehicles: All inoperable motor vehicles, as defined
in subsection
6-3-2-7(B) of this Code, whether on public or private property, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-14: REPORT OF ABANDONMENT:
When an abandoned lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle comes into the temporary
possession or custody of a person in this State, not the owner of the vehicle,
such person shall immediately notify the Police Department when the vehicle is
within the corporate limits of the Village. Upon receipt of such notification,
the Chief of the Police Department shall authorize a towing service to remove
and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle. The
towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a
record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person
legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided
in this Chapter. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-15: TOWING OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned on a highway in this Village ten (10)
hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by order of
the Chief of the Police Department.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of the traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway by a towing service may be authorized by
order of the Chief of the Police Department.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department, the owner of the
vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
   (D)   Any police officer, the Police Department, towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in
any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner or his
legal representative or any other person legally entitled to the possession of
a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this Chapter. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-16: TOWING REPORT:
When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the Police Department shall keep
and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of
manufacture, manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series name, body style,
vehicle identification number, license plate year and number and registration
sticker year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include
the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for
towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-17: IDENTITY OF OWNER OF ABANDONED VEHICLE; NOTICE:
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the State to be searched by the Secretary of
State for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership information.
The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the State
Police to be searched by a directed communication to the Illinois State Police
for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the Illinois State Police
files are searched with negative results, the information contained in the
National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State
Police. The information determined from these record searches will be used by
the Police Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner
or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a
disposition be made and setting forth public sale information. Exceptions to a
notification by certified mail to the registered owner or other legally
entitled person are set forth in Section
9-1-5-18 of this Article.
   (B)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of
this State or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable,
the Police Department shall notify the State Police, for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police will be
immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of the
vehicle for notification of owner purposes set forth in subsection (A) of this
Section. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-18: NOTICE AND SALE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle seven (7)
years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to its possession for a period of thirty (30) days after
notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department or towing
service having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be
posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on
the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior
to the sale, the Police Department where the vehicle is impounded, or the
towing service where the vehicle is impounded, shall cause a notice of the time
and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or
other person known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department or towing
service due to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address
obtained from the registration records of this State, the sending of a second
certified notice will not be required.
   (C)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of four
(4) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in
this Chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein without notice to the
registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle.
   (D)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this Chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining ownership, the
contacting of the registered owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in
person for a determination of disposition; and, an examination of the State
Police stolen vehicles files for theft and wanted information. At the
expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner the Chief of Police will
authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
   (E)   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may, however, be sold to a
person desiring to restore it. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-19: RECLAMATION BY OWNER OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Any time before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided
herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to its possession may claim
the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department proof of ownership or proof
of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the
owner or other person under this Section until all towing and storage charges
have been paid. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-20: DISPOSITION REPORT:
When a vehicle in the custody of the Police Department is reclaimed by the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold
at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided by this Chapter, a report
of the transaction will be maintained by the Police Department for a period of
one year from the date of the sale or disposal. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-21: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of section
9-1-5-13 of this article is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the
abandoned or unclaimed vehicle. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 332, 12-8-1980)
9-1-5-22: NOTICE ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of any
ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking and there is no person in
attendance upon such parked vehicle to be arrested or served immediately with a
traffic violation notice to appear in court to answer the charge of such
violation, any police officer observing such violation may attach to the
vehicle used in such violation, a traffic violation notice requiring that the
person in whose name such vehicle is registered appear in court on a day
certain named in such notice and answer to the charge of such violation.
   (B)   When any vehicle is parked in a private parking lot in violation of
section
9-1-5-10 of this article and there is no person in attendance upon such parked
vehicle to be arrested or in attendance upon such parked vehicle to be served
immediately with a traffic violation notice to appear in court or answer the
charge of such violation, any police officer upon a written complaint signed by
the owner or proprietor of the lot, or by his authorized agent, that the
vehicle is not entitled to the privileges of the parking lot, may attach to the
vehicle a traffic violation notice as provided herein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the
vehicle to which said notice is attached, to remove the same from said vehicle.
(1971 Code)
9-1-5-23: PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS PROHIBITED
DURING CERTAIN HOURS:
No person shall park, or cause or permit a commercial vehicle to stand, on any
residential street, alley, public way or parkway in the village which hereafter
is posted against such standing or parking of commercial vehicles, between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-24: LOADING ZONE:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle
for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of
passengers, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any place designated by the
board of trustees as a loading zone and marked as such. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-25: EMERGENCY AUTHORITY TO MOVE VEHICLES:
When any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon any
public way, members of the police department are hereby authorized to remove or
have removed any such vehicle from one location to any other location. (1971
Code)
9-1-5-26: SNOW REMOVAL:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or remain parked on any
village street after a snowfall of sufficient length and accumulation to
reasonably give notice of the necessity for removal of snow from the village
streets.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, an accumulation of snow exceeding one
inch (1") in depth shall be prima facie evidence of a sufficient accumulation
to necessitate snow removal.
   (C)   The prohibitions on parking under this section shall remain in effect
for a twelve (12) hour period commencing at the end of the snowfall or until
the streets are cleared, whichever occurs first.
   (D)   The superintendent of public works is authorized and directed to post
signs at various locations throughout the village which state as follows:
No parking on streets after 1 inch snowfall until removal is completed.
Violators will be towed.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section is guilty
of a petty offense and shall be fined the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day
for each vehicle in violation of this section. Each day such violation is
committed or allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall
be punishable as such hereunder. In addition, the superintendent of public
works or the chief of police may cause any vehicle in violation of this section
to be towed and the owner and/or the operator of said vehicle shall be
responsible for all towing and/or storage charges for said vehicle. (Ord. 812,
4-9-2007)
9-1-5-27: STREET CLEANING:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the village any time when such street is being cleaned. Signs
indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned shall be posted
before the cleaning of the street, and shall be removed after the cleaning of
the street is finished. (1971 Code)
9-1-5-28: VEHICLE REGISTRANT PRESUMED RESPONSIBLE FOR PARKING VIOLATION:
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any provisions
prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall be prima facie responsible for violation and subject to the
penalty therefor. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE VI.  PEDESTRIAN'S RIGHTS AND DUTIES
SECTION:
9-1-6-1: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic-Control Signals
9-1-6-2: Pedestrian's Control Signals
9-1-6-3: Pedestrian's Right Of Way At Crossings
9-1-6-4: Crossing To Be By Shortest Route; Suddenly Leaving Curb
9-1-6-5: Prohibited Crossings
9-1-6-6: Use Of Sidewalks
9-1-6-7: Blind Persons; Right Of Way
9-1-6-8: Soliciting Rides
9-1-6-9: Pedestrians To Exercise Due Care
9-1-6-1: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided by Section
9-1-3-2 of this Chapter but at all other places pedestrians shall be recorded
the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions as stated in this
Article. (1971 Code)
9-1-6-2: PEDESTRIAN'S CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to the pedestrian traffic-control signals provided
for in Section
9-1-3-4 of this Chapter. (1971 Code)
9-1-6-3: PEDESTRIAN'S RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSINGS:
   (A)   Where traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked
crosswalk, or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as
otherwise provided in this Article.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   (C)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections,
pedestrians shall have the right of way over drivers of vehicles. (1971 Code)
9-1-6-4: CROSSING TO BE BY SHORTEST ROUTE; SUDDENLY LEAVING CURB:
   (A)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a marked crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield. (1971 Code)
9-1-6-5: PROHIBITED CROSSINGS:
   (A)   Whenever upon the basis of an engineering or traffic investigation
upon any street, it is determined that pedestrian crossings between
intersections shall be prohibited in the interest of public safety, pedestrians
shall not cross between intersections except where there may be a marked
crosswalk. Such regulations against pedestrians crossing between intersections
shall become effective when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are
erected.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway where a public pedestrian tunnel
or bridge has been provided other than by said tunnel or bridge and to be so
designated by the erection of appropriate signs or fencing.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed. (1971 Code)
9-1-6-6: USE OF SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon any adjacent roadway except at a crosswalk.
   (B)   Persons shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks and sidewalks.
   (C)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any person walking along a roadway
of this Village shall keep on the left of the paved portion or the left
shoulder thereof. (1971 Code)
9-1-6-7: BLIND PERSONS; RIGHT OF WAY:
Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right of way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver
of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or highway shall
bring his vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to a blind person who is not
carrying a white cane or walking stick or guided by a dog, but the other
provisions of this Article relating to pedestrians shall then be applicable to
such person. However, the failure of a blind person to so use or carry such a
cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking on streets,
highways or sidewalks shall not be considered evidence of contributory
negligence. (1971 Code)
9-1-6-8: SOLICITING RIDES:
No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any private vehicle. (1971 Code)
9-1-6-9: PEDESTRIANS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Nothing in this Chapter shall relieve a pedestrian from the duty of exercising
due care. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE VII.  EQUIPMENT AND INSPECTION
SECTION:
9-1-7-1: Driving Unsafe Vehicles; Prohibited
9-1-7-2: Mufflers
9-1-7-3: Gas And Smoke
9-1-7-4: Brakes
9-1-7-5: Mirrors
9-1-7-6: Windshields
9-1-7-7: Horn
9-1-7-8: Lights
9-1-7-9: When Lighted Lamps Are Required
9-1-7-10: Signal Lamps And Signal Devices
9-1-7-11: Lamp Or Flag On Projecting Load
9-1-7-12: Oscillating, Rotating Or Flashing Lights On Motor Vehicles
9-1-7-13: Operation Of Oscillating, Rotating Or Flashing Lights
9-1-7-14: Special Lighting Equipment On School Buses
9-1-7-15: Nonskid Devices
9-1-7-16: Width, Length, Height; Projecting Loads
9-1-7-17: Spilling Loads
9-1-7-18: Authority Of Chief Of Police To Inspect Vehicles
9-1-7-19: Seat Safety Belts
9-1-7-1: DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause to or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required by this Article and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-
100 et seq., or which is equipped in any manner in violation of this Article
and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-100 et seq. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-2: MUFFLERS:
   (A)   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the streets and highways
of this Village shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or
exhaust system in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any
excessive or unusual noise. No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped
with a cutoff, bypass or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust
system of a motor vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise
of such vehicles above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the
vehicle, and such original muffler shall comply with all the requirements of
this Section.
   (B)   As used in this Section, "muffler" means a device consisting of a
series of chambers or baggle plates or other mechanical design for the purpose
of receiving exhaust gas from an internal combustion engine and effective in
reducing noise. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-3: GAS AND SMOKE:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as to
endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-4: BRAKES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a Village street
whose brake equipment and performance ability of brakes does not comply with
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-118.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle which is so loaded
that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating the
brakes of such vehicle. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-5: MIRRORS:
Every motor vehicle operated singly or when towing another vehicle shall be
equipped with a mirror having at least three (3) square inches of reflecting
surface and so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a
distance of at least two hundred feet (200') to the rear of such motor vehicle.
(1971 Code)
9-1-7-6: WINDSHIELDS:
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or
nontransparent material upon the front windshield side, and rear windows which
obstructs the driver's clear view of the highway.
   (B)   The windshield of every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for clearing rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be controllable by the driver of the vehicle. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-7: HORN:
   (A)   Every motor vehicle of the first and second division when operated
upon a highway shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable
of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less
than two hundred feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device shall emit an
unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a whistle.
   (B)   No vehicle except an authorized emergency vehicle shall be equipped
with nor shall any person use upon a vehicle any siren, whistle or bell. (1971
Code)
9-1-7-8: LIGHTS:
It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not equipped
with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of this Chapter and of
Chapter 12 of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-100–5/12-117.
9-1-7-9: WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED:
   (A)   When upon any highway in this Village, during the period from sunset
to sunrise, or at any other time when visibility is so limited as to require
the use of lights for safety, every motorcycle shall carry and exhibit one
lighted lamp commonly known as a driving light and every other motor vehicle
two (2) such lighted driving lamps showing white lights, or lights of a yellow
or amber tint, visible at least five hundred feet (500') in the direction
toward which each motorcycle or motor vehicle is proceeding. Parking lamps may
be used in addition to but not in lieu of any such driving lamps. Each motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer shall also exhibit at least two (2) lighted
lamps which shall be mounted on the left rear and right rear of the vehicle so
as to throw a red light visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in the
reverse direction, except that a motorcycle need be equipped with only one such
lamp.
   (B)   Parking lights are to be displayed in accordance with Section
9-1-5-6 of this Chapter.
   (C)   Headlamps are to be used in accordance with Section
9-1-4-30 of this Chapter.
   (D)   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when
required and render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet (50') to
the rear. Any taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps
for illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-10: SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES:
   (A)   Every vehicle other than an antique vehicle displaying an antique
plate operated in this Village shall be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on
the rear of the vehicle which shall display a red light visible from a distance
of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the rear in normal sunlight and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake, and which
may but need not be incorporated with other rear lamps. During times when
lighted lamps are not required, an antique vehicle may be equipped with a stop
lamp or lamps on the rear of such vehicle of the same type originally installed
by the manufacturer as original equipment and in working order. However, at all
other times, such antique vehicle must be equipped with stop lamps meeting the
requirements of this Section.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate shall be equipped with an electric turn signal device which shall
indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the right or to the left in the
form of flashing lights located at and showing to the front and rear of the
vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which the turn is to be made. The
lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable and when signaling, shall emit a white or amber
light, or any shade of light between white and amber. The lamps showing to the
rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a red light. An antique vehicle
shall be equipped with a turn signal device of the same type originally
installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
   (C)   Every trailer and semitrailer shall be equipped with an electric turn
signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power unit to
turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red lights located at
the rear of the vehicle on the side toward which the turn is to be made and
mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable.
   (D)   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than
three hundred feet (300') in normal sunlight.
   (E)   Motorcycles and motor-driven cycles need not be equipped with electric
turn signals. Antique vehicles need not be equipped with turn signals unless
such were installed by the manufacturer as original equipment. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-11: LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD:
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4') or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load at the times specified in Section
9-1-7-9 of this Article, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red light or
lantern required under this Section shall be in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such a load a red flag or cloth not less than twelve inches
(12") square. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-12: OSCILLATING, ROTATING OR FLASHING LIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter:
   (A)   Red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only on:
      1.   Local law enforcement vehicles and police vehicles of the State or
Federal government;
      2.   Vehicles of local fire departments and firefighting vehicles of the
State or Federal government; and
      3.   Vehicles which are designed as ambulances and while responding to an
emergency call for the purpose of conveying sick or injured persons.
   (B)   Amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only on:
      1.   Second division vehicles designed for towing or hoisting disabled
vehicles while actually being used for such purposes.
      2.   Motor vehicles or equipment of the State, local authorities and
contractors while engaged in maintenance or construction operations within the
limits of construction projects;
      3.   Vehicles or equipment used by engineering or survey crews while
actually engaged in work on a highway;
      4.   Vehicles of public utilities and Municipal departments while engaged
in maintenance or construction operations within the limits of construction
projects;
      5.   Oversized vehicle or load moving under permit issued by the
Department under Section
9-1-4-55 of this Chapter;
      6.   The front and rear of motorized equipment owned and operated by the
State or any political subdivision thereof, which is designed and used for
removal of snow and ice from highways; and
      7.   Such other vehicles as may be authorized by local authorities.
   (C)   Blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only on
the front of any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a volunteer fireman,
paid fireman, part-paid fireman, or call fireman while responding to fire call.
(1971 Code)
9-1-7-13: OPERATION OF OSCILLATING, ROTATING OR FLASHING LIGHTS:
Oscillating, rotating or flashing lights located on top of police vehicles in
this Village shall be lighted whenever a police officer is in pursuit of a
violator of a traffic law or regulation. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-14: SPECIAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT ON SCHOOL BUSES:
Every school bus used for the transportation of school children to and from
school, in addition to any other equipment and distinctive markings required by
this Chapter, shall be equipped with signal lamps mounted as high and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable, which shall be capable of displaying to the
front two (2) alternately flashing red lights located at the same level, and to
the rear two (2) alternately flashing red lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall have the sufficient intensity to be visible at five hundred
feet (500') in normal sunlight. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-15: NONSKID DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful to operate upon any Village street any motor vehicle
equipped with any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or nonflexible
portion thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-16: WIDTH, LENGTH, HEIGHT; PROJECTING LOADS:
The maximum width, length and height of any vehicle and its load shall not
exceed the limits expressed in chapter 15 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 .
(1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-102–5/15-108.
9-1-7-17: SPILLING LOADS:
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any Village streets unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any Village streets any vehicle with any
load unless said load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to
prevent said covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets.
   (C)   No person shall operate on any public street within the Village any
truck or other vehicle when mud, sand or other like substance is likely to be
thrown off the tires or treads of such vehicle and deposited on the streets in
noticeable quantities. (1971 Code)
9-1-7-18: AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE TO INSPECT VEHICLES:
All police officers are hereby empowered at all times to inspect any vehicle to
determine its compliance with the equipment and other provisions of this Code.
(1971 Code)
9-1-7-19: SEAT SAFETY BELTS:
   (A)   No person shall sell any 1965 or later model motor vehicle of the
first division unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two
(2) sets of seat safety belts. Motorcycles are exempted from the provisions of
this Section.
   (B)   No person shall operate any 1961 or later model motor vehicle of the
first division that is titled or licensed by the Secretary of State unless the
front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two (2) sets of seat safety
belts.
   (C)   As used in this Section "seat safety belts" means a set of belts or a
harness meeting the specifications established by the Department of Public
Safety and installed in such manner as to prevent or materially reduce the
movement of the person using the same in the event of collision or upset of the
vehicle. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE VIII.  BICYCLES
SECTION:
9-1-8-1: Scope Of Article
9-1-8-2: Traffic Laws To Apply To Riders
9-1-8-3: Mechanical Condition
9-1-8-4: Equipment Required
9-1-8-5: Rules Of Operation
9-1-8-1: SCOPE OF ARTICLE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this Article.
   (B)   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this Article.
   (C)   The regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever any
bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (1971
Code)
9-1-8-2: TRAFFIC LAWS TO APPLY TO RIDERS:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions
of this Chapter, except as charged by special regulations contained in this
Article and except as to those provisions of this Chapter which by their nature
can have no application. (1971 Code)
9-1-8-3: MECHANICAL CONDITION:
All police officers shall have authority to inspect all bicycles for mechanical
fitness. (1971 Code)
9-1-8-4: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Brakes: Every bicycle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with a brake adequate to control the movement of and to stop such bicycle
whenever necessary.
   (B)   Lamps And Reflectors: Every bicycle operated after sunset shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of at least three hundred feet (300') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear. Every such reflector shall be so designed and maintained
as to be visible at night from all distances within two hundred feet (200') to
fifty feet (50') from such bicycle when directly in front of a motor vehicle
displaying lawfully lighted lamps. A lamp exhibiting a red light visible from a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear may be used in addition to the
rear reflector.
   (C)   Audible Signal: No person shall ride a bicycle unless it is equipped
with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance
of at least one hundred feet (100'); except that no bicycle shall be equipped
with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle. (1971 Code)
9-1-8-5: RULES OF OPERATION:
   (A)   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person upon
such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon, nor
shall any person ride upon a bicycle other than as above authorized.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (B)   Right Of Way On Sidewalks: When permitted or required by this Article
to ride on sidewalks, bicycle riders shall use the right side of sidewalks
insofar as practicable. A person riding a bicycle on a sidewalk shall yield the
right of way to every pedestrian and when approaching a pedestrian from the
rear shall give audible warning signal when at least twenty five feet (25')
distant from the pedestrian.
   (C)   Speed Of Bicycles: No person riding a bicycle shall ride faster than
is reasonable and proper in regard to the safety of the rider and others.
   (D)   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle shall hold on
or cling to another vehicle powered by a motor.
   (E)   Carrying Articles: No person riding a bicycle shall carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon
the handlebars.
   (F)   Trick Riding: No rider of a bicycle shall remove both hands from the
handlebars, or feet from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding
on any street; nor shall any person operating a bicycle upon a public highway
participate in any race for speed or endurance contest with any other vehicle,
except under permit from and under the supervision of the Police Department.
   (G)   Parking Bicycles: No person shall park a bicycle in such a manner as
to interfere with pedestrians or persons getting into or out of vehicles. (1971
Code)
ARTICLE IX.  SNOWMOBILE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-9-1: Definitions
9-1-9-2: Regulations
9-1-9-3: Exceptions To Regulations
9-1-9-4: Equipment Required
9-1-9-5: Unattended Vehicles
9-1-9-6: Restriction Of Operation
9-1-9-7: Traffic Regulations
9-1-9-8: Regulation Of Certain Motor Vehicles On Public Streets And Lands And
On Private Property
9-1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
OPERATE: To control the operation of a snowmobile.
OPERATOR: A person who operates or is in actual control of a snowmobile.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice in a
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners. (1971 Code)
9-1-9-2: REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   On private property of another without the express permission to do so
by the owner or occupant of said property.
   (B)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreational
areas and golf courses without express provision or permission to do so by the
proper public authority.
   (C)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise so as
to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons.
   (D)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any other person.
   (E)   Without having such snowmobile registered as provided for by statute
except that this provision shall not apply to the operation of a snowmobile on
the private property of the owner by the owner or a member of his immediate
family.
   (F)   Within the right of way of any public street within the Village unless
the operator shall have a valid driver's license, or is accompanied by a
licensed driver, who is actually occupying a seat in the vehicle. (1971 Code)
9-1-9-3: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
Notwithstanding the prohibitions of this Chapter, the Parks and Recreation
Director shall have authority to supervise and regulate events or programs in
connection with events conducted by the Parks and Recreation Department in
which snowmobiles are used. The Parks and Recreation Director shall have the
authority to designate Village park areas that he shall deem available for the
use of snowmobiles. (1971 Code)
9-1-9-4: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
All snowmobiles operated within the Village shall have the following equipment:
   (A)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device on
said vehicle.
   (B)   Adequate brakes in good working condition and at least one headlight
and one taillight.
   (C)   A safety or so-called "dead-man throttle" in operating condition; a
"safety" or "dead-man throttle" is defined as a device which when pressure is
removed from the accelerator or throttle causes the motor to be disengaged from
driving track. (1971 Code)
9-1-9-5: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for the owner or operator to leave or allow a snowmobile to be
or remain unattended on public property while the motor is running or with keys
for starting the vehicle left in the ignition. (1971 Code)
9-1-9-6: RESTRICTION OF OPERATION:
The Board of Trustees, by resolution, prohibits the operation of snowmobiles
within the right of way of the public roads or streets or other Village
property within the Village when in their opinion the public safety and welfare
so requires. (1971 Code)
9-1-9-7: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Each person operating a snowmobile shall strictly observe all traffic signs and
signals and all other traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and
shall obey the orders and directions of any police officer of the Village
authorized to direct or regulate traffic. (1971 Code)
9-1-9-8: REGULATION OF CERTAIN MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS AND LANDS AND
ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   (A)   Definitions: The following words and phrases when used in this Section
shall, for the purposes of this Section, have the meanings given them as
follows:
    MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle and every motor scooter motor bike and
moped with less than one hundred fifty (150) cubic centimeter piston
displacement including motorized pedal cycles.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
   (B)   Operation On Public Roads: It shall be unlawful to operate any
snowmobile on any highway, road, street, avenue, public alley or public
driveway within the Village.
   (C)   Operation On Public Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a motor-driven cycle, a motor scooter, a motorbike or moped on any
public school grounds, playgrounds, park property or recreational area without
express provision or permission to do so by the proper public authority.
   (C)   Operation On Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motor scooter, motorbike or moped in
the Village on any private property owned by another located within the Village
without express permission to do so by the owner or occupant of said property.
(Ord. 312, 10-9-1978)
ARTICLE X. PARTIES IN VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
9-1-10-1: Parties To Commission Of Violation
9-1-10-2: Offenses By Persons Owning Or Controlling Vehicles
9-1-10-1: PARTIES TO COMMISSION OF VIOLATION:
Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or aids or
abets in the commission of any act declared in this Chapter to be unlawful or
which is prohibited by this Chapter, whether individually or in connection with
one or more other persons or as principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty
of such offense, and every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or
wilfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits or directs another to
violate any provision of this Chapter is likewise guilty of such offense. (1971
Code)
9-1-10-2: OFFENSES BY PERSONS OWNING OR CONTROLLING VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or any other person, employing or otherwise
directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly permit the
operation of such vehicle upon the streets and highways of this Village in any
manner contrary to the provisions of this Chapter. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE XI. ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
9-1-11-1: Arrests
9-1-11-2: Penalties
9-1-11-3: Traffic Court Prosecution Fee
9-1-11-1: ARRESTS:
The Police Department shall patrol the public highways and streets of the
Village and make arrests for violations of this Chapter.
The Village Attorney, or any attorney at law duly appointed by the Board of
Trustees to assist him, shall prosecute the violators of this Chapter. (1971
Code)
9-1-11-2: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Every person convicted for a violation of any provision of this
Chapter for which another penalty is not provided, shall for the first
conviction under this Chapter be punished by a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00); for a second such
conviction under this Chapter within one year thereafter, such person shall be
punished by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00); and for a third or subsequent conviction within
one year after the first such conviction, such person shall be punished by a
fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00); provided, however, that (1971 Code)
   (B)   Any person accused of a violation of a provision of this Chapter
restricting the length of time for parking in a designated public area or on a
Village street may settle and compromise the claim against him for such illegal
parking by paying to the Village five dollars ($5.00) if such payment is made
within twenty four (24) hours of the time such alleged offense was committed.
Payments made pursuant to this subsection shall be made at the Village police
station, and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received. Such money
shall be turned over to the Village Treasurer.
The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain from
instituting a prosecution for the alleged offenses compromised and settled
pursuant to this subsection (B). (Ord. 409, 5-7-1984)
   (C)   Nothing in subsection (B) of this Section shall be deemed to apply to
any person:
      1.   Parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any
place where Police or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is
kept or housed; or
      2.   Parking a vehicle on a private parking lot in violation of Section
9-1-5-10 of this Chapter; or
      3.   Parking a vehicle in such a way so to reduce traffic on an arterial
street to one-way traffic only; or
      4    Who, upon the request of any member of the Police or Fire
Department, refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked. (1971 Code)
9-1-11-3: TRAFFIC COURT PROSECUTION FEE:
A fee in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) be and the same is hereby ordered
to be imposed for each traffic court case prosecuted by the Village Attorney
resulting in a conviction.
The Village Clerk is ordered to furnish a certified copy of this Ordinance to
the Traffic Court Judge and also to the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
This Ordinance is in addition to all other ordinances on the subject and shall
be construed therewith excepting as to that part in direct conflict with any
other ordinance and in the event of such conflict, the provisions hereof shall
govern. (Ord. 423, 12-9-1985)
ARTICLE XII. BAIL
SECTION:
9-1-12-1: Effect Of This Article
9-1-12-2: Bail, Purpose Of
9-1-12-3: Bail Schedule For Traffic Offenses
9-1-12-4: Traffic Offenses For Which Court Appearance Required
9-1-12-5: Multiple Violations
9-1-12-6: Cash Bail
9-1-12-7: Appearance Date; Notice To Accused
9-1-12-8: Guilty Pleas; Hearings
9-1-12-9: Bail For Persons Under Eighteen
9-1-12-10: Alternative Procedure Of Bail For Persons Under Eighteen
9-1-12-11: Driver's License Or Bond Certificate Deposited In Lieu Of Bail Or In
Addition To Bail
9-1-12-12: Copy Of Bond; Receipt For Cash Bail
9-1-12-13: Substitution Of Cash Bail For Driver's License Or Bond Certificate
9-1-12-14: Persons To Whom Bail Is Made
9-1-12-1: EFFECT OF THIS ARTICLE:
It is hereby declared by the Board of Trustees that:
   (A)   This Article is intended to codify in this Chapter the applicable
rules of the Illinois Supreme Court as set forth in rules 501 through 556,
effective January 1, 1982, or as thereafter amended, as said rules affect and
pertain to bail and bail procedures for traffic offenses charged under this
Chapter;
   (B)   This Article is intended by its provisions to require compliance with
said rules and to inform police officers and future offenders of the specific
application of said rules to offenses charged under this Chapter;
   (C)   Nothing in this Article shall be construed as an attempt to enlarge,
change or limit the powers of any court or rights of the accused with regard to
bail or bail procedures as are now or might hereafter be provided by State law
or the rules of the Illinois Supreme Court. (Ord. 367, 2-8-1982)
9-1-12-2: BAIL, PURPOSE OF:
The purpose of bail is only to assure the appearance of the defendant in court.
In a serious case where the arresting officer believes the preset amount of
bail is inadequate for that purpose the offender shall be brought before a
judge without unnecessary delay. When it appears that bail is not necessary to
assure defendant's appearance, none should be required. The arresting officer
instead shall issue a notice to appear. (1971 Code)
9-1-12-3: BAIL SCHEDULE FOR TRAFFIC OFFENSES:
Persons charged with violating any provision of this Chapter shall post bail in
an amount identical to the bail provided for the violation of a similar
provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code, bail for such violation of the Illinois
Vehicle Code being set forth by Illinois Supreme Court rule 526, as effective
on January 15, 1982, or as thereafter amended. (Ord. 367, 2-8-1982)
9-1-12-4: TRAFFIC OFFENSES FOR WHICH COURT APPEARANCE REQUIRED:
A court appearance is required for persons charged with violating a provision
of this Chapter if a court appearance is required by Illinois Supreme Court
rule 551 for the violation of a similar provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 367, 2-8-1982)
9-1-12-5: MULTIPLE VIOLATIONS:
When a person has been arrested at one time for more than one offense under
this Chapter, he is to be released upon furnishing bail on the charge for which
the highest bail is required. (1971 Code)
9-1-12-6: CASH BAIL:
   (A)   The arresting officer shall supply a stamped envelope addressed to the
Circuit Clerk of Tazewell County and will place the appropriate portions of the
ticket in the envelope and give a copy of the ticket to the defendant. The
defendant will place in the same envelope the required amount of bail in cash
or his driver's license or bond certificate as the case may be. If a court
appearance is not required, he shall include his signed statement consent to
the entry of an ex- party judgment if he fails to appear. In the presence of
the arresting officer he shall mail same to the Circuit Clerk. If he does not
appear on the appearance date, a judgment may be entered against him for an
amount not more than the bail but probably equal to it.
   (B)   If a court appearance is required, the consent to ex-party judgment
shall not be signed or mailed and, if the defendant fails to appear, the bail
may be forfeited and the court may order a complaint filed and a summons or
arrest warrant issued.
   (C)   When a defendant is released upon posting bail by any of the methods
described above, the arresting officer will furnish him with a copy of the
ticket on which will be noted which form of bail was accepted. The arresting
officer shall transmit the appropriate portions of the ticket and the license
or bond, if any, to the Circuit Clerk of Tazewell County within forty eight
(48) hours of the time set for appearance, whichever is earlier. The defendant
being released by any of these methods may select which he will use. The
arresting officer shall not require the deposit of a bond certificate or
driver's license instead of cash. (1971 Code)
9-1-12-7: APPEARANCE DATE; NOTICE TO ACCUSED:
   (A)   The arresting officer shall schedule the date for an accused's
appearance in court in the manner prescribed by Illinois Supreme Court rule 504
as effective on January 15, 1982, or as thereafter amended.
   (B)   When issuing a uniform citation and complaint, the arresting officer
shall give notice to the accused of the procedure for avoiding multiple court
appearances in the manner specified by Illinois Supreme Court rule 505 as
effective on January 15, 1982, or as thereafter amended. (Ord. 367, 2-8-1982)
9-1-12-8: GUILTY PLEAS; HEARINGS:
If a ticket does not require a court appearance the defendant may elect either:
   (A)   To appear for hearing on the date to be fixed by the arresting officer
for a trial, or
   (B)   If he does not wish to appear, he may deliver or mail his plea of
guilty on the form supplied to him by the arresting officer, to the Clerk not
earlier than five (5) days after his arrest or later than three (3) days before
his appearance date, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The Clerk shall
apply the cash bail to the payment of the fine and costs and will deliver or
mail to the defendant the balance, if any. If the defendant has not posted bail
(in effect notice to appear) he shall enclose the total of the fine and costs
with his plea of guilty. (1971 Code)
9-1-12-9: BAIL FOR PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN:
Persons under eighteen (18) years of age may be released by giving individual
bond (in the amount required by this Article) if a parent, or adult standing in
the place of a parent, executes the bond as surety. (1971 Code)
9-1-12-10: ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURE OF BAIL FOR PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN:
In any case in which the bail specified under this Article does not exceed
thirty five dollars ($35.00), a defendant may place cash bail (in the amount
required by such rule) in a stamped envelope (to be provided by the arresting
officer) addressed to the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Tazewell County and, in
the presence of the arresting officer, deposit that envelope in a United States
Government mailbox. The defendant shall then be released from custody. The
appropriate portion(s) of the ticket shall be enclosed with the cash bail.
(1971 Code)
9-1-12-11: DRIVER'S LICENSE OR BOND CERTIFICATE DEPOSITED IN LIEU OF BAIL OR IN
ADDITION TO BAIL:
If a defendant deposits a driver's license with the arresting officer in lieu
of bail or in addition to bail, or deposits a bond certificate, the arresting
officer shall note that fact on the violator's copy of the ticket and transmit
the driver's license or bond certificate to the Clerk within the time provided
in this Article. (1971 Code)
9-1-12-12: COPY OF BOND; RECEIPT FOR CASH BAIL:
A carbon copy of the bond or an official receipt showing the amount of cash
bail posted, specifying the time and place of court appearance, shall be
furnished to the accused and shall constitute a receipt for bail. The bond or
cash bail, or both, shall be delivered to the office of the Circuit Clerk of
Tazewell County within forty eight (48) hours of receipt or within the time set
for the accused's appearance in court, whichever is earlier. (1971 Code)
9-1-12-13: SUBSTITUTION OF CASH BAIL FOR DRIVER'S LICENSE OR BOND CERTIFICATE:
Not sooner than five (5) days after arrest, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays and not later than three (3) days before the date set for appearance
in court, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, the defendant who has
deposited his driver's license or a bond certificate in lieu of cash bail may
recover either by substituting cash bail in the appropriate amount with the
Clerk of the Circuit Court of Tazewell County. The Clerk may waive the time
limit specified by this Section. (1971 Code)
9-1-12-14: PERSONS TO WHOM BAIL IS MADE:
Bail for any offense under this Code may be taken by the Circuit Clerk, his
deputies and also by certain law enforcement officers. A list of these officers
is available in the Circuit Clerk's office of Tazewell County. They may take
the bail at any police station, sheriff's office, jail, state highway police
headquarters building, or any other government office designated by the Chief
Judge of the Tenth Judicial Circuit. (1971 Code)
ARTICLE XIII. VILLAGE TRAFFIC ENGINEER
SECTION:
9-1-13-1: Creation Of Office
9-1-13-2: Powers And Duties Of Traffic Engineer Generally
9-1-13-3: Powers And Duties
9-1-13-4: Authority Of Traffic Engineer To Designate Through Streets And Stop
Intersections
9-1-13-5: Authority To Designate Dangerous Intersections
9-1-13-6: Authority To Establish Crosswalks
9-1-13-7: Authority To Designate One-Way Streets
9-1-13-8: Authority To Make Experimental Rules
9-1-13-9: Ex Officio Traffic Engineer
9-1-13-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
The office of Village Traffic Engineer is hereby established. The Village
Traffic Engineer shall exercise the powers and carry out the duties as provided
in this Chapter. (1971 Code)
9-1-13-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF TRAFFIC ENGINEER GENERALLY:
It shall be the general duty of the Village Traffic Engineer to make or have
made such engineering traffic investigations as may be required by law prior to
the enactment of Village traffic ordinances; to make recommendations concerning
such investigations to the Board of Trustees; to cooperate with other Village
officials in the development of ways and means to improve local traffic
conditions; and to exercise and carry out the additional powers and duties
imposed upon the office of Traffic Engineer by ordinance or by order of the
Board of Trustees. (1971 Code)
9-1-13-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Village Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Determine and recommend to the Board of Trustees traffic ordinances
imposing fines for the violation thereof and the installation of traffic-
control devices;
   (B)   Determine traffic regulations and remedial measures which do not
impose fines upon their violation, and to further designate or fulfill such
traffic regulations or remedial measures by appropriate devices, marks, lines
or signs with the assistance of such personnel as may be provided by resolution
of the Board of Trustees;
   (C)   Specify the quality, quantity, location, method of installation,
timing and maintenance of all traffic-control devices or remedial measures;
   (D)   Be consistent with the standards adopted by the State of Illinois,
Department of Public Works and Buildings, Division of Highways and the
standards contained in this Chapter in specifying the quality, quantity,
location, method of installation and timing of traffic-control devices. All
traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
the State law or the ordinances of the Village shall be official. (1971 Code)
9-1-13-4: AUTHORITY OF TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO DESIGNATE THROUGH STREETS AND STOP
INTERSECTIONS:
The Village Traffic Engineer, with the approval of the Board of Trustees by
resolution, may designate certain streets or portions of streets as through
streets and shall cause to be erected and maintained on each street
intersecting such through streets appropriate signs bearing the word "STOP" and
such other legend as may be necessary; provided, however, that such signs
furnished by the State and bearing such words or legend as may be required by
the State shall be maintained on arterial streets. (1971 Code)
9-1-13-5: AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE DANGEROUS INTERSECTIONS:
The Traffic Engineer, with the approval of the Board of Trustees by resolution,
may designate street intersections in addition to intersections of through
streets as dangerous or hazardous intersections and shall cause a stop sign to
be erected and maintained at each such dangerous or hazardous intersection.
(1971 Code)
9-1-13-6: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH CROSSWALKS:
The Village Traffic Engineer, with the approval of the Board of Trustees by
resolution, is hereby authorized to establish, designate and set off with
appropriate markings, signs or other devices, crosswalks, traffic lanes,
parking lanes and spaces, bus stops, permanent or temporary taxicab stands,
passenger zones and loading zones, and other places established, designated or
set off for the control and regulation of traffic by ordinance of this Village,
and the Traffic Engineer shall determine the character and kind of such
markings, signs or other devices. (1971 Code)
9-1-13-7: AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE ONE-WAY STREETS:
The Traffic Engineer, with the approval of the Board of Trustees by resolution,
may designate certain streets or alleys or portions thereof along which
vehicles shall travel only in one prescribed direction, and may designate
certain intersections at which vehicles shall not make left-hand or right-hand
or U-turns, as the case may be. The Traffic Engineer shall cause the placement
of proper signs along such streets and alleys and at such intersections
indicating the direction of travel and the kinds of turns allowed and
prohibited. (1971 Code)
9-1-13-8: AUTHORITY TO MAKE EXPERIMENTAL RULES:
The Traffic Engineer, upon giving notice to and receiving the approval of the
Chief of Police, may make temporary rules regulating traffic or test traffic-
control devices under actual conditions of traffic. No such experimental rule
regulating traffic shall remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days. (1971
Code)
9-1-13-9: EX OFFICIO TRAFFIC ENGINEER:
In the absence of a duly appointed Traffic Engineer, the Chief of Police shall
be ex officio Village Traffic Engineer, and he shall exercise the powers and
duties as prescribed to the Traffic Engineer in this Article. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STOP STREETS
SECTION:
9-2-1: One-Way Stop Streets
9-2-2: Stop Intersections
9-2-1: ONE-WAY STOP STREETS:
The following streets are hereby designated as authorized stop streets:
Allen Street north at Elm Street
Bradley Street west at McArthur Drive
Center Street north at Elm Street
Chateau Drive south at Route 98
Coach Road north at Lincoln Boulevard
Columbus at Main Street
Elm Street east at Main Street
Elm Street northwest at Illinois Route 29
Forrest Drive northwest at Illinois Route 29
Forrest Drive southwest at Illinois Route 29
Halsey Street west at McArthur Drive
Highway Boulevard at intersection with north end of Forrest Drive
Highway Boulevard at intersection with north end of River Drive
Highway Boulevard at intersection with south end of Forrest Drive
Highway Boulevard at intersection with south end of River Drive
Illinois Route 98 west at Illinois Route 29
Johnnie Court west at Elm Street
LaRosh entrance east at Main Street
Lee Street east at McArthur Drive
Lee Street west at Main Street
Lincoln Boulevard west at Main Street
Main Street north at Elm Street
Main Street north at Illinois Route 29
Main Street north at Lincoln Boulevard
Main Street south at Elm Street
Main Street south at Illinois Route 98
Main Street south at Lincoln Boulevard
McArthur Drive at intersection with Yates Street
McArthur Drive south at Lincoln Boulevard
Morgan Street east at Main Street
Nimitz Street west at McArthur Drive
Park Drive southeast at Illinois Route 29
Parkway Drive north at Illinois Route 98
Patton Street west at McArthur Drive
Plains Street east at Main Street
River Drive northeast at Illinois Route 29
River Drive southeast at Illinois Route 29
Rogers Road west at Main Street
Rogers School exit west at Main Street
Roosevelt Street north at Lee Street
Roosevelt Street north at State Street
Roosevelt Street south at Lee Street
Roosevelt Street south at Lincoln Boulevard
Roosevelt Street south at State Street
Scherer entrance northwest at Illinois Route 29
Scherer entrance south at Morgan Street
Shoshana at Route 98
St. Clair Drive west at Main Street
State Street west at Main Street
Sunset Boulevard south at Plains Street
Walnut Street north at Elm Street
West Lane northwest at Illinois Route 29 (Ord. 774, 1-24-2005)
9-2-2: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
The following street intersections are hereby designated as authorized stop
intersections:
Lee Street at Roosevelt Street
Main Street at Elm Street
Main Street at Lincoln Street
McArthur Drive at State Street
North Columbus and South Columbus in the Main Street Subdivision
State Street at McArthur Drive
State Street at Roosevelt Street (Ord. 914, 2-28-2011)
CHAPTER 3
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY STREETS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Authorized Yield Right Of Way Streets
9-3-1: AUTHORIZED YIELD RIGHT OF WAY STREETS:
The following streets are designated as authorized yield right of way streets:
Bradley Street at its intersection with McArthur Drive
Center Street at North Columbus
Glen Lane northwest at Forrest Drive
Hazel Street East at Center Street
Hazel Street West at Allen Street
Highway Boulevard I northeast at River Drive
Highway Boulevard I southwest at River Drive
Highway Boulevard II northeast at Forrest Drive
Highway Boulevard II southwest at Forrest Drive
Main Street at entrance to Columbus
Marion Street East at Center Street
Marion Street West at Allen Street
Oak Lane northwest at Forrest Drive
Oak Lane southeast at Glen Lane/Plains Street
Oliver Street East at Center Street
Oliver Street West at Allen Street
Park Drive South at its intersection with Park Drive East
State Street East at its intersection with McArthur Drive
Tosha Court at South Columbus
Walnut at North Columbus
(Ord. 775, 1-24-2005)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Streets
9-4-2: Alleys
9-4-1: STREETS:
   (A)   The speed limit on the following streets shall be thirty (30) miles
per hour:
Lincoln Boulevard from Main Street to Coach Road.
   (B)   The speed limit on the following streets shall be thirty five (35)
miles per hour:
Main Street from Route 98 to Route 29.
   (C)   The speed limit on all other streets in the village shall be twenty
five (25) miles per hour. (Ord. 783, 6-27-2005)
9-4-2: ALLEYS:
The speed limit in all alleys of the village shall be ten (10) miles per hour.
(1971 Code)
CHAPTER 5
STREET ENTRANCES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Entrances Closed
9-5-1: ENTRANCES CLOSED:
The entrance on the following streets shall be closed:
Market Place Street at Route 29. (Ord. 724, 7-22-2002)
CHAPTER 6
MOTOR VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT AND FEES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Impoundment Of Motor Vehicles Used In Connection With Illegal Activities
9-6-2: General Regulations
9-6-3: Probable Cause And Notice
9-6-4: Hearing
9-6-5: Administrative Review
9-6-6: Administrative Fee; Disposal Of Vehicles
9-6-7: Vehicle Possession
9-6-1: IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES USED IN CONNECTION WITH ILLEGAL
ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   Impoundment: A motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied
permission of the owner of record, that is used in connection with any of the
following violations, or which may jeopardize the public's safety and safe
vehicular movement and in furtherance of public safety or in the exercise by
the police department of its community caretaker functions, may be subject to
tow and impoundment by the village, and the owner of record of said vehicle
shall be liable to the village for an administrative and processing fee of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) in addition to any towing and storage fees.
   (B)   Violations:
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission or attempted
commission of any offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and forfeited
pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1 et seq.; or
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, or
intoxicating compounds, in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501
or a similar provision of this code; or
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any offense in violation of the
provisions of the Illinois cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
550/1 et seq.; or
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any offense in violation of the Illinois
controlled substances act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100 et seq.; or
      5.   Unlawful use of a weapon in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-1; aggravated discharge of a firearm in violation of 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.5; and unlawful possession of a firearm and firearm
ammunition in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1; or
      6.   Driving while driver's license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked, the violation of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-303; except that vehicles shall not be subject to seizure
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving), or
due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license
in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, where the period of expiration is greater than one
year; or
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, or operating a motor
vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's license or permit due to a
person's age; or
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated the offenses of: driving while license is
revoked or suspended, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303; operating a motor
vehicle without a valid driver's license, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
101; and/or driving under the influence of alcohol, other drugs, intoxicating
compound(s), or a combination thereof, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501;
or
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any felony offense defined under 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes; or
      11.   Fleeing and eluding in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-204 or 5/11-204.1 or a similar provision of this code; or
      12.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with leaving the
scene of an accident involving personal injury or property damage in violation
of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-401, 5/11-402 or 5/11-403 or any similar
provisions of this code. (Ord. 917, 6-13-2011)
9-6-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (A)   This chapter shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing
state or federal laws or village ordinances.
   (B)   The owner shall be subject to all fees set forth in this chapter in
addition to any penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for the
underlying violations.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to a vehicle which was stolen at the time
of impoundment so long as the theft was reported to appropriate police
authorities within twenty four (24) hours of its discovery.
   (D)   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this chapter shall be
those approved by the chief of police and shall be uniform for all similarly
situated vehicles.
   (E)   Vehicles shall not be impounded where applicable law does not
specifically provide for the forfeiture and towing of the vehicle and an
authorized, lawful and unimpaired driver is available to promptly remove the
vehicle from the location of an arrest. (Ord. 917, 6-13-2011)
9-6-3: PROBABLE CAUSE AND NOTICE:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to tow and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the officer shall
provide for the towing of the vehicle by a wrecker licensed as authorized by
this code. Prior to towing, the officer shall notify any person identifying
himself as the owner of the vehicle or any person who is found to be in control
of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation and who is physically
present at the scene of the alleged violation that the vehicle will be towed
and impounded. The officer shall inform any present owner and/or person in
control of the vehicle of that person's right to request a hearing to be
conducted under section
9-6-4 of this chapter. An owner may secure release of an impounded vehicle
pending completion of the hearings provided for in section
9-6-4 of this chapter by posting a bond of cash, money order, certified check,
or approved credit card payment service with the police department in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and accrued towing and storage
charges. The police department shall hold the cash bond, and accrued towing and
storage charges in escrow until such time as a request for hearing would be
untimely, or if a hearing has been timely requested, until the hearing is
completed in conformance with section
9-6-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 917, 6-13-2011)
9-6-4: HEARING:
Within forty eight (48) hours after a vehicle is towed/impounded pursuant to
this chapter, a representative of the village shall notify the owner of record
by certified mail, return receipt requested at the address of the owner as it
appears in the records of the secretary of state, of his or her right to
request a hearing before a hearing officer to determine whether the subject
vehicle is eligible for impoundment pursuant to this section. The notice shall
state the penalties that may be imposed if no hearing is requested, including
that a vehicle that is not released by payment of the penalty and fees may be
sold or disposed of by the village in accordance with applicable law. The owner
of record seeking a hearing must file a written request for a hearing with the
village no later than fifteen (15) days after the notice was mailed.
Upon receiving a written request for a hearing, the chief of police shall
review the file and determine whether the facts of the situation are such that
the village should dismiss the impoundment charge. If the chief of police
determines not to dismiss the impoundment charge upon his or her review, the
hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer appointed by the mayor under
authority of this code.
The hearing shall be scheduled and held, unless continued by order of the
hearing officer, no later than forty five (45) days after the request for a
hearing has been filed. No less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the
hearing officer will notify the owner of record, by mail, of the date, time and
location of the hearing. All interested persons shall be given an opportunity
to be heard at the reconvened hearing. At any time prior to the hearing the
hearing officer may, at the request of the village or the owner, direct
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. The formal rules of
evidence will not apply during the hearing, but hearsay evidence shall be
admissible only if it is of the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. If, after considering evidence
received during the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a preponderance
of the evidence that the vehicle was used in connection with the commission of
an offense set forth in section
9-6-1 of this chapter, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the
owner of the vehicle civilly liable to the village of an administrative and
processing fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00). If bond has been posted in
accordance with section
9-6-6 of this chapter, all sums due the village and the tow operator for towing
and impoundment fees shall be distributed to the village and tow operator, as
the case may be. If the hearing officer enters an order finding the owner of
record liable to the village for the administrative fee, any vehicle still
impounded shall continue to be impounded until the owner pays the
administrative fee to the village plus all applicable towing and storage
charges to the tow operator.
If the hearing officer finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the
vehicle was not used in connection with the commission of an offense set forth
in section
9-6-1 of this chapter, the hearing officer shall order the immediate return of
the owner's vehicle and of any cash bond and may order a return of towing and
impoundment fees (if said fees were paid in advance of the hearing).
If the owner of record fails to timely request a hearing the hearing officer
shall enter a default order in favor of the village. (Ord. 917, 6-13-2011)
9-6-5: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
A final order entered by a hearing officer under section
9-6-4 of this chapter is subject to review under the administrative review act
found at 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (Ord. 917, 6-13-2011)
9-6-6: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE; DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES:
The administrative fee as imposed pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a
debt due and owing the village. The debt may be satisfied by the bond posted
pursuant to this chapter or where no bond is posted, by cash, money order,
certified check or approved credit card payment service. If the administrative
penalty and applicable towing and impoundment fees are not paid within thirty
(30) days after the expiration of time for administrative review of the hearing
officer's determination or within thirty (30) days after an action seeking
administrative review has been resolved and in favor of the village, whichever
is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of
in the manner provided for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles under the
Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 917, 6-13-2011)
9-6-7: VEHICLE POSSESSION:
Except as otherwise provided by law, no owner, lienholder or other person shall
be legally entitled to take possession of a vehicle impounded under this
chapter until the bond and towing and impoundment fees are paid or the
administrative penalty and fees applicable under this chapter have been paid.
Whenever a person with a lien of record against an impounded vehicle has
commenced proceedings to repossess the vehicle, possession of the vehicle shall
be given to that person if she or he agrees in writing to pay to the village
from proceeds of the sale of the vehicle, the administrative fee, plus
applicable towing and storage charges. (Ord. 917, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definition
9-7-2: Prohibited
9-7-3: Penalties
9-7-4: Exceptions
9-7-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter:
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: Means an electronic device, including, but not
limited to, a handheld wireless telephone, handheld personal digital assistant,
or a portable or mobile computer, but does not include a globe positioning
system or a navigation system, or a device that is physically or electronically
integrated into the motor vehicle. (Ord. 1026, 6-10-2019)
9-7-2: PROHIBITED:
A person may not operate a motor vehicle on a roadway while using an electronic
communication device. (Ord. 1026, 6-10-2019)
9-7-3: PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter is an offense against traffic regulations governing
the movement of vehicles. A person who violates this chapter shall be fined a
maximum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a first offense, one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for a second offense, one hundred twenty five dollars
($125.00) for a third offense, and one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a
fourth or subsequent offense. (Ord. 1026, 6-10-2019)
9-7-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to:
      1.   A law enforcement officer or operator of an emergency vehicle while
performing his or her official duties;
      2.   A driver using an electronic communication device for the sole
purpose of reporting an emergency situation and continued communication with
emergency personnel during the emergency situation;
      3.   A driver using an electronic communication device in hands free or
voice operated mode, which may include the use of a head set;
      4.   A driver of a commercial motor vehicle reading a message displayed
on a permanently installed communication device designed for a commercial motor
vehicle with a screen that does not exceed 10 inches tall by 10 inches wide in
size;
      5.   A driver using an electronic communication device while parked on
the shoulder of a roadway;
      6.   A driver using an electronic communication device when the vehicle
is stopped due to normal traffic being obstructed and the driver has the motor
vehicle transmission in neutral or park;
      7.   A driver using two-way or citizens band radio services;
      8.   A driver using two-way mobile radio transmitters or receivers for
licensees of the Federal Communications Commission in the amateur radio
service;
      9.   A driver using an electronic communication device by pressing a
single button to initiate or terminate a voice communication; or
      10.   A driver using an electronic communication device capable of
performing multiple functions, other than a hand held wireless telephone or
hand held personal digital assistant (for example, a fleet management system,
dispatching device, citizens band radio, or music player) for a purpose that is
not otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (Ord. 1026, 6-10-2019)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Title, certain terms and words used herein shall be
interpreted or defined as follows:
Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
The singular number includes the plural.
The word "person" includes a corporation as well as an individual.
The word "building" shall include the word structure.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not directory.
                As applied to a building, structure, or use, one which is on the same lot with,
ACCESSORY:      which is incidental and subordinate to the main or principal building, structure
                or use, and which in area, extent or purpose is subordinate to said principal
                building, structure or use.
ALLEY:          A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
                to the property abutting thereon.
                A room or suite of rooms in a multiple- or two-family dwelling, or where more
APARTMENT:      than one unit is established above nonresidential uses, intended or designed for
                use as a residence by a single family.
APARTMENT       See definition of Dwelling, Multiple.
HOUSE:
BASEMENT:       A story having part but not less than one-half (1/2) of its height below grade. A
                basement shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of height regulation.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where, for compensation, meals and lodging are
                provided for three (3) but not more than twelve (12) persons.
                Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or
BUILDING:       protection of persons, animals, chattels or property. When a structure is divided
                into separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the ground, each part is
                deemed a separate building.
BUILDING, FRONT The line of that face of the building nearest the front line of the lot. This
LINE:           face includes sun parlors and covered porches whether enclosed or unenclosed but
                does not include steps.
BUILDING,       The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of the building.
HEIGHT OF:
                A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below grade. A cellar is
CELLAR:         not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of height
                measurement.
COVERAGE:       That percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building area.
                A section or sections of the Village for which the regulations governing the use
DISTRICT:       of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size of yards and
                intensity of use are uniform.
DWELLING        Every district specified in this Title, except the B-1 Business and Commercial
DISTRICT:       District, I-1 Industrial District (light) and I-2 Industrial District (heavy) is
                designated as Dwelling District.
DWELLING,       A building designed for or occupied exclusively by more than two (2) families.
MULTIPLE:
DWELLING,       A building designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
SINGLE-FAMILY:
DWELLING, TWO-  A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two (2) families.
FAMILY:
DWELLINGS:      Any building or portion thereof, but not a trailer, which is designed and used
                exclusively for residential purposes.
                One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single housekeeping
                unit, whether or not related to each other by birth, adoption or marriage, but no
FAMILY:         unrelated group shall consist of more than five (5) persons as distinguished from
                a group occupying a "boarding house", "lodging house" or "hotel", as defined
                herein.
                An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
                vegetables, fruit, trees and grain, and their storage on the area, as well as for
                the raising thereon the usual farm poultry and farm animals for the use or
FARM:           consumption of the person or persons operating the farm. The term "farming"
                includes the operating of the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing
                the produce; however, the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary
                to that of the normal farming activities, and provided further, that farming
                shall not include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
                Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale or offering for sale at
FILLING         retail of any automobile fuels or oils. When the dispensing, sale or offering for
STATION:        sale is incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the premises shall be
                classified as a public garage.
                All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets
FRONTAGE:       (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if the
                street is a dead-end street, then all of the property abutting on one side
                between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
                An accessory building housing motor-driven vehicles which are the property of and
GARAGE, CLASS   for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which the private garage is
I:              located, not more than one of the vehicles being a commercial vehicle of not more
                than three (3) tons' capacity.
                Any building or premises used for the housing only of motor-driven vehicles other
GARAGE, CLASS   than trucks and commercial vehicles, pursuant to previous arrangements and not to
II:             transients and at which automobile fuels and oils are not sold and motor-driven
                vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired or sold.
                Any building or premises used for the housing, hiring, storing, equipping or
GARAGE, CLASS   repairing of motor-driven trucks, commercial or other vehicles owned, leased or
III:            operated by the occupant of the premises in the conduct of or as accessory to a
                business or occupation.
GARAGE, CLASS   Any building or premises except those as a private or storage garage, used for
IV:             equipping, repairing, hiring, selling or storing motor-driven vehicles.
                (A)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average of
                the established elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining
                the street.
GRADE:          (B)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of the
                finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
                   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than twenty feet (20') from
                the street is to be considered as adjoining the street.
HOME            Any gainful occupation or profession conducted entirely within a dwelling or a
OCCUPATION:     structure accessory thereto, and carried on in such a manner as to be clearly
                accessory to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes.
                A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
HOTEL:          compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
                boarding house or lodging house.
INSTITUTION:    A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit organization for
                public use.
                A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is equipped regularly to
LODGING HOUSE:  provide lodging by prearrangement for definite periods) for compensation for
                three (3) or more but not exceeding twelve (12) individuals, not open to
                transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels open to transients.
LOT, CORNER:    A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT, DEPTH OF:  The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE     A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from
FRONTAGE:       a corner lot.
                A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has been recorded in the
LOT OF RECORD:  office of the Recorder of Deeds, or a parcel of land the deed to which was
                recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds prior to the date of the adoption
                of this Title.
                A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by use permitted in this
                Title, including one main building together with its accessory building, the open
LOTS:           spaces and parking spaces required by this Title, and having its principal
                frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved place. The minimum width
                shall be not less than fifty feet (50') wide, nor shall it have a minimum area of
                less than four thousand (4,000) square feet.
                Any use in which the major activity is the treatment, processing, rebuilding,
                repairing or wholesale storage of material, products or items, and where the
MANUFACTURING   finished product is not acquired by the ultimate user on the premises, as
OR INDUSTRY:    distinguished from a retail use where the treatment, processing, repairing or
                storage is secondary to the sale, exchange or repairing of materials or products
                on the premises.
                Any building or land lawfully occupied by the use at the time of passage of the
NONCONFORMING   original Zoning Ordinance or any amendment thereto, which does not conform after
USE:            the passage of this Title or amendment thereto with the use regulations of the
                district in which it is situated.
                A durable surfaced area, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory building,
                or unenclosed, and if the space is unenclosed comprising an area of not less than
PARKING SPACE:  one hundred forty (140) square feet, exclusive of a durable surfaced driveway
                connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory
                ingress and egress of an automobile.
PLACE:          An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently reserved as the
                principal means of access to abutting property.
ROOMING HOUSE:  See definition of Lodging House.
SERVICE         Shops wherein the major activities are the repair and maintenance of wearing
ESTABLISHMENTS: apparel, sporting goods and articles for use in the home, including household
                appliances.
STABLE:         A building accommodating one or more horses.
                That portion of a building, other than a cellar or basement included between the
STORY:          surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be
                no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
                it.
                A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of roof decking
STORY, HALF:    and wall space not more than three feet (3') above the top floor level and in
                which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area is finished for
                use.
STREET:         All property dedicated or intended for public or private street, highway, freeway
                or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
STREET LINE:    A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous street.
STRUCTURAL      Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls of
ALTERATIONS:    partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
                in the exterior walls.
                Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent location on the ground
                or attached to something having a permanent location on the ground, including,
STRUCTURE:      but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, advertising signs,
                billboards, backstops for tennis courts, TV satellite receiving antennas and
                pergolas.
                An area containing one or more structures, designed or intended to be used as
TOURIST OR      temporary living facilities of two (2) or more families, and intended primarily
TRAILER CAMP:   for automobile transients or providing spaces where two (2) or more tents or
                auto-trailers can be or are intended to be parked.
                Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage purposes, having no
                foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses or skirtings, and
TRAILER:        which is, has been or reasonably can be equipped with wheels or other devices for
                transporting the structure from place to place, whether by motive power or other
                means. The term "trailer" shall include camp car, camper and house car.
                An open space on the same lot with a building, occupied and unobstructed by any
                portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided
YARD:           herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side
                yard, or the depth of a rear yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot
                line and main building shall be used.
                A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side yard lines, and being
YARD, FRONT:    the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the main building or
                any projection thereto other than the projection of the usual steps.
                A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the side lot lines
                and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and rear of
YARD, REAR:     the main building or any projections other than steps. On both corner lots and
                interior lots, the rear yard shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot
                from the front yard.
YARD, SIDE:     The yard between the main building and the side line of the lot, and extending
                from the front lot line to the rear yard line. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
 
CHAPTER 2
DISTRICTS; MAP; GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Use Districts
10-2-2: Zoning District Map
10-2-3: Boundaries
10-2-4: Unclassified And Newly Annexed Property
10-2-5: Vacated Property
10-2-6: General Regulations
10-2-7: Fences
10-2-8: TV Satellite Receiving Antenna Regulations (Rep. by Ord. 912, 2-14-
2011)
10-2-9: Small Wind Energy Systems
10-2-10: Building Permits
10-2-11: Penalties
10-2-1: USE DISTRICTS:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades, industries
and the location of buildings designed for specific uses, to regulate and limit
the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered, to
regulate and determine the intensity of use of the lot areas, and to regulate
and determine the areas of yards, courts and other open spaces within and
surrounding such buildings, the village is hereby divided into districts known
as:
R-1 Single-family dwelling district (chapter 3 of this title) 
R-2 Single-family large home dwelling district (chapter 4 of this title)
R-3 Two-family dwelling district (chapter 5 of this title) 
B-1 Business and commercial district (chapter 7 of this title) 
B-2 Business and commercial district (chapter 7A of this title) 
I-1 Industrial district (light) (chapter 8 of this title) 
I-2 Industrial district (heavy) (chapter 9 of this title) 
M-1 Mobile home park district (chapter 16 of this title) 
R-4 Multiple-family dwelling district (chapter 17 of this title) 
A-1 Agriculture district (chapter 21 of this title) 
C-1 Conservation district (chapter 22 of this title) 
C-2 Conservation district (chapter 23 of this title)
 
(Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-2-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
The boundaries of the districts hereinabove set forth shall be known and
designated as the "district map". The district map and all notations,
references and other information shown thereon are hereby made a part of this
title and shall have the same force and effect as if said district map and all
the notations, references and other information shown thereon were all fully
set forth or described herein, the original of which is properly attested to
and is on file with the clerk of the village. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-2-3: BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty may exist with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the district map hereby adopted, the following rules
shall apply:
   (A)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the district map are bounded
approximately by the street or alley lines, the street or alley shall be
construed to be the boundary of the district.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the district map are bounded approximately by lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts
unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on said district map.
   (C)   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the district
map shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on said district map. 
(Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-2-4: UNCLASSIFIED AND NEWLY ANNEXED PROPERTY:
Except that property which is annexed into the village pursuant to a
preannexation agreement as set forth in the statutes of the state, any and all
property which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall, prior to the
election at which the question of such annexation is to be submitted to the
citizens of the village, be studied by the zoning commission and tentatively
classified into one or more of the several districts. Such property, when such
annexation shall become final, shall be added to the district as designated by
the commission. Within six (6) months of the date of such annexation the zoning
commission shall call a public hearing for the purpose of zoning such annexed
property, and within thirty (30) days after such hearing shall recommend to the
village board that this title be amended so as to classify such property in
accordance with such recommendations. All property not having a specific zoning
classification and all property annexed to the village shall be classified as
R-1 district until this classification is changed by amendment to this title.
Property which is annexed to the village pursuant to a preannexation agreement
shall be annexed and zoned in accordance with the statutes of the state,
governing preannexation agreements rather than by this section.  (Ord. 1040, 8-
10-2020)
10-2-5: VACATED PROPERTY:
Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated, the zoning district
adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically
extended to the center of such vacation, and all areas included in the vacation
shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the
extended districts.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-2-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Permitted Purpose: No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
except for the purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land
is located.
   (B)   Building Height: No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein
established for the district in which the building is located.
   (C)   Conformance: No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered except in conformity with the area
regulations of the district in which the building is located.
   (D)   Yards And Open Spaces: The minimum yards and other open spaces,
including lot area per family, required by this title for each and every
building existing at the time of the passage hereof, or for any building
hereafter erected shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard or open
space requirements for any other building.
   (E)   Lots: Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall
be located on a "lot" as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than
one main building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title.
   (F)   Front Yard: The front yard requirements of both streets of a corner
lot shall be observed for all buildings and structures, including accessory
buildings.
   (G)   Garages and Outbuildings Height: All garages and outbuildings shall
not exceed eighteen feet (18') in height above the main floor level unless said
structure is an integral part of the main building, in which case the height
shall not exceed the height of the main building.
   (H)   Easements: Any property over which the village has an easement for
street or roadway purposes or utilities and all adjoining property shall be
subject to the restrictions and setback requirements of this code the same as
if said easement was already an existing dedicated village road or street,
however, said property over which the village has a roadway or street easement
shall remain in the control and use of the private property owner subject to
the above restrictions, unless and until the village takes possession of said
property by dedicating same as a public roadway or public street in the
village. (Ord. 666, 10-26-1998)
   (I)   Traditional Theme: It is hereby declared that a traditional theme is
hereby set for the construction and decorating in the village of North Pekin.
All building materials used in the construction and/or exterior decoration of
any building must be traditional materials such as brick, stone, stucco, wood,
glass, or materials which attempt to replicate brick, stone, stucco, wood, or
glass. Nontraditional building materials such as cans, bottles, materials used
in the construction of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, aircraft or boats may
not be used in the construction of or decoration of the exterior of any
building constructed in the village of North Pekin, Illinois. (Ord. 757, 8-25-
2003)
   (J)   Application And Review Procedure For Subdividing: The application and
review procedure for subdividing any property within the village of North
Pekin, Illinois, shall be as follows:
      1.   An application to subdivide a property may only be initiated by the
fee owners of the property, or his designated agent.
      2.   The planning and zoning commission shall conduct the application and
hearing process for all requests to subdivide any property.
      3.   A nonrefundable initial application fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) shall be charged for all applications to subdivide a property.
      4.   Along with submitting the application form, applicants for
subdividing a property, must also produce site plans depicting the general
layout of the parcel, a survey and legal description of the property (where
requested by the planning and zoning commission), and a letter stating the
proposed use for the parcel(s), the approximate gross floor area of existing or
intended buildings or structures, a statement that the applicable standards to
the specific use have and will continue to be met.
      5.   The planning and zoning commission shall study the application, make
relevant inquiry and conduct a publicly noticed hearing with regard to the
subdividing of the property in which they shall hear any evidence or statement
presented by the applicant or his representative or by other persons attending
the hearing, as well as consider any other written or oral statements or
evidence as they, in their sole discretion, deem relevant. The planning and
zoning commission shall make a written report of their findings, including any
recommended conditions of subdividing the property, if any, to the board of
trustees of the village of North Pekin, within sixty (60) days after acceptance
of the completed application.
      6.   The board of trustees shall review the written report and
recommendations of the planning and zoning commission toward subdividing the
property, and any recommended conditions. If the planning and zoning commission
recommends against subdividing the property, the property can only be
subdivided if the village board votes for the same to be subdivided by an
affirmative majority vote of the elected members of the village board of
trustees. The village board of trustees shall grant or deny the application to
subdivide property within sixty (60) days of receipt of the written report of
the planning and zoning commission.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-2-7: FENCES:
No fence may be constructed in any use district except in accordance with the
following regulations:
   (A)   No fence may be constructed, erected or maintained on any property
owned by the village or dedicated to public use except for publicly owned
fences constructed at the direction of the village board of trustees.
   (B)   No fence may be constructed, erected or maintained in any front yard
in any R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, M-1, B-1or B2 district, which fence exceeds four
feet (4') in height measured from the surface of the ground or which fence
obstructs vision through its surface to an extent greater than twenty five
percent (25%) of its total area.
   (C)   Except as provided in subsection (D) of this section, no fence may be
constructed, created or maintained in any side yard or rear yard within an R-1,
R-2, R-3, R-4, M-1, B-1 or B2 district which exceeds six feet (6') in height.
   (D)   Fences which enclose public or institutional parks, playgrounds,
schools or public landscaped areas within any use districts and fences located
in I-1 or I-2 districts shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height measured
from the surface of the ground.
   (E)   No fence which obstructs vision through its surface to an extent
greater than twenty five percent (25%) of its total area shall be located in
any district in such a manner that it obstructs the view of approaches to an
intersection of one street with another street, a driveway or a sidewalk.
   (F)   No fence located within an R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, M-1, B-1 or B2 district
shall contain barbed wire, electric current or charge of electricity.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, "fence" is defined as any structure
whether comprised of living or nonliving material which forms a physical
barrier to the passage of persons.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-2-8: TV SATELLITE RECEIVING ANTENNA REGULATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 912, 2-14-2011)
10-2-9: SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   (A)   Purpose: This section is enacted for the purpose of allowing North
Pekin residents and businesses to use small wind energy systems in appropriate
locations, to harness wind energy for individual properties in order to reduce
reliance on commercial energy consumption, while minimizing any adverse visual,
safety and environmental impacts of the system, and protecting the public
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the village of North
Pekin. The requirements of this section shall apply to small wind energy
systems when they are allowed by special use under the zoning code of the
village of North Pekin.
   (B)   Authority: Pursuant to 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-12001 et al.,
the village of North Pekin has the authority to regulate and restrict the
location and use of structures.
   (C)   Definitions: The following definitions when used in this section shall
have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
BUILDING DENSITY:         The number of buildings in a given area.
FAA:                      The Federal Aviation Administration of the United
                          States Department of Transportation.
                          Any cable or wire that extends from a small wind
GUY CABLE:                energy system for the purpose of supporting the
                          system structure.
                          A wind energy conversion system consisting of a
                          single wind turbine and/or a single tower. The wind
                          energy conversion system shall include all associated
                          control or conversion electronics that generates
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: power for an individual property for the purpose of
                          reducing reliance on commercial energy consumption.
                          Small wind energy system shall include all types of
                          wind energy conversion systems including, but not
                          limited to: roof and/or building mounted wind
                          turbines, single wind turbines and wind towers.
SYSTEM:                   A small wind energy system.
SYSTEM HEIGHT:            The height above grade of the highest point of the
                          arc of the blades.
TOWER:                    The upright portion of a small wind energy system to
                          which the primary generator devices are attached.
 
   (D)   Small Wind Energy Systems Permitted: A small wind energy system may be
allowed by a special use permit. In order for a special use permit to be
considered, all of the following conditions must be met:
      1.   The system height is no greater than one hundred feet (100');
      2.   The parcel on which the system is to be located is no smaller than
one acre and contains an existing residence, commercial building and/or
agriculture building;
      3.   The parcel on which the system is to be located is a residential,
business, conservation, industrial, or agricultural zoning district.
   (E)   Application For Special Use Permit: When a small wind energy system is
allowed as a special use, a site plan shall be submitted to the zoning
committee demonstrating compliance with the following:
      1.   Purpose: The only allowable purpose of a small wind energy system is
to reduce reliance on commercial energy consumption.
      2.   Setbacks: All parts of the structure of a small wind energy system,
including the tower or other support structure, base, footings and turbine, but
excluding guy cables and their anchors, shall be set back a distance equal to
one hundred ten percent (110%) of the system height from all adjacent property
lines and a distance equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the system
height from any inhabited structure, road right of way, railroad right of way,
and right of way for overhead electrical transmission or distribution lines.
Guy cables and their anchors shall meet the setback requirements under this
code for accessory structures in the zoning district in which the system is
proposed to be located.
      3.   Noise: The small wind energy system shall not exceed a noise level
of sixty (60) decibels as measured at the closest property line. The noise
level may be exceeded during short term events, such as utility outages and/or
severe windstorms.
      4.   Building Code Compliance: Building permit applications shall be
accompanied by standard drawings of the system structure, including the tower,
base, footings, and guy cables. An engineering analysis of the tower showing
compliance with the uniform statewide building code and certified by a licensed
professional engineer shall also be submitted. This analysis may be supplied by
the manufacturer.
      5.   Electrical Code Compliance: Building permit applications for small
wind energy systems shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the electrical
components of the system showing compliance with the national electrical code
and certified by a licensed professional engineer. This information may be
supplied by the manufacturer.
      6.   Notifications Regarding Aircraft: Small wind energy systems shall
comply with all applicable regulations of the FAA, including any necessary
approvals for installations close to airports. The applicant has the
responsibility of determining the applicable FAA regulations and securing the
necessary approvals.
      7.   Local Utility Company Notification: If a small wind energy system is
to be connected to the electricity grid, the applicant shall notify the
electric utility service provider that serves the proposed site of his intent
to install an interconnected customer owned electricity generator no later than
five (5) business days prior to submitting a building permit application.
Copies of letters must be included in the building permit application.
      8.   Minimum Distances: The distance between any protruding blades
utilized on a small wind energy system and the ground shall be a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') as measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades.
The distance between the lowest point of the arc of the blades and the peak of
any structure within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the blade arc shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10').
      9.   Radio And Television Signals: The small wind energy system shall not
cause any radio, television, microwave, or navigation interference. If a signal
disturbance problem is identified, the applicant shall correct the problem
within sixty (60) days of being notified of the problem.
      10.   Appearance: The small wind energy system shall maintain a
galvanized neutral finish or be painted to conform to the surrounding
environment to minimize the adverse visual effects. No small wind energy system
shall have any signage, writing, pictures, or decorations placed on it at any
time other than warning equipment and ownership information. No small wind
energy system shall have any flags, streamers, banners and other decorative
items that extend from any part of the system placed on it at any time.
      11.   Fencing: Any tower shall be enclosed with a fence of at least eight
feet (8') in height or the base of the tower shall not be climbable for a
distance of twelve feet (12') measured from the ground.
      12.   Height: The applicant shall provide evidence that the proposed
height does not exceed the height recommended by the manufacturer or
distributor of the system. For a roof or building mounted structure, the
applicant shall provide evidence that the structure does not exceed any
structural limitations of said roof or building.
      13.   Required Safety Features: The small wind energy system shall have
an automatic overspeed control to render the system inoperable when winds are
blowing in excess of the speeds for which the system is designed and a manually
operable method to render the system inoperable in the event of a structural or
mechanical failure of any part of the system.
   (F)   Repair: A small wind energy system that is not functional shall be
repaired by the owner or removed. In the event the village of North Pekin
becomes aware of any system that is not operated for a continuous period of
three (3) months, the village of North Pekin shall notify the landowner by
registered mail and provide forty five (45) days for a written response. The
written response shall include reasons for the operational difficulty, and a
reasonable timetable for completing the corrective actions. If the village of
North Pekin deems the corrective action and/or timetable for completing the
corrective actions as unfeasible and/or unreasonable, the village of North
Pekin shall notify the landowner and such landowner shall remove the small wind
energy system within one hundred twenty (120) days of receiving such notice. In
the event the landowner fails to remove and/or repair the small wind energy
system, the village of North Pekin may remove and/or repair said small wind
energy system. In such event, the landowner shall be liable to the village of
North Pekin for all costs incurred in the removal and/or repair of the small
wind energy system.
   (G)   Removal Upon End Of Useful Life: When a system reaches the end of its
useful life and can no longer function, the landowner of the system shall
remove the system within one hundred twenty (120) days of the day on which the
system last functioned. The landowner is solely responsible for removal of the
system and all costs, financial or otherwise, of system removal. In the event
the landowner fails to remove and/or repair the small wind energy system, the
village of North Pekin may remove and/or repair said small wind energy system.
In such event, the landowner shall be liable to the village of North Pekin for
all costs incurred in the removal and/or repair of the small wind energy
system.
   (H)   Enforcement: The erection or operation of a small wind energy system
in violation of this section shall subject the owner and/or the operator of the
system to civil penalty. The civil remedies available to the court shall
include the removal of the system. If such removal is ordered, all expenses
shall be paid by the landowner and/or operator of the system.
   (I)   Severability: The provisions of this section are severable, and the
invalidity of any section, subdivision, paragraph, or other part of this
section shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remainder of this
section.
   (J)   Fees: The applicant shall pay to the village of North Pekin any and
all fees associated with the issuance of a special use permit pursuant to
section
10-13-2 of this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-2-10: BUILDING PERMITS:
See
10-13-1.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-2-11: PENALTIES:
See
10-13-1.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 3
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Use Regulations
10-3-2: Area Regulations
10-3-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth herein, or elsewhere in this title when referred to
in this chapter, are the district regulations in the R-1 single-family dwelling
district.
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Accessory buildings including class I garage, and accessory uses customarily
incident to the above uses; provided that no accessory buildings may be
constructed upon a residential lot which does not contain a single-family
dwelling.
Single-family dwellings must have a minimum of one thousand one hundred sixty
(1,160) square feet of foot print of the main structure, excluding any garage
attached or unattached, with a variance allowance of two percent (2%) thereof,
and also must have a garage, either attached or unattached, of a minimum size
of fourteen feet by twenty four feet (14' x 24').
In no case shall any accessory building be erected in front of any dwelling
except as necessary incidental to parking by the homeowner; nor may any
accessory building obscure the primary dwelling. Accessory buildings shall also
include: bulletin boards and signs not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in
area for churches and public buildings; and temporary signs appertaining to the
lease, hire or sale of a building or premises not to exceed ten (10) square
feet in area.
Home occupations by special permit granted in the manner prescribed in section
10-10-2 of this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-3-2: AREA REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Setback: No building shall be erected closer than twenty five feet
(25') nor more than fifty six feet (56') from any street. Unenclosed covered
porches, the floors of which are not higher than the level of the first floor,
may not encroach on such restricted areas.
   (B)   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback.
   (C)   Side Yard: Except as may be hereinafter provided, there shall be a
side yard on each side of the building having a width of not less than five
feet (5') except that a detached garage or other outbuilding located sixty feet
(60') or more from the front property line may be located within two feet (2')
of the side lot line.
      Uncovered porches or terraces may, however, be built and maintained
within any part of such free and open spaces, so long as they do not encroach
within three feet (3') of a lot dimension line.
   (D)   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall consist of a minimum of twenty percent
(20%) of the area of the lot.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 4
R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY LARGE HOME DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4-1: Use Regulations
10-4-2: Area Regulations
10-4-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title
when referred to in this Chapter are the district regulations in the R-
2 Single-Family Large Home Dwelling District.
The use regulations for the R-2 District shall be the same as for the R-
1 Single-Family Dwelling District with the exception of a minimum of one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of foot print of main structure, with
a variance allowance of two percent (2%) thereof, exclusive of one-story open
porches and garages or one thousand (1,000) square feet with full basement. 
(Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-4-2: AREA REGULATIONS:
The area regulations for the R-2 District shall be the same as set forth for
the R-1 District.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 5
R-3 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Use Regulations
10-5-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth herein or set forth elsewhere in this Title when
referred to in this Chapter are the district regulations for the R-3 Two-Family
Dwelling District.
The use regulations for this District shall be the same as for the R-1 District
with the exception of a minimum of six hundred (600) square feet of foot print
per family unit with a total of not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet of foot print for the two-family dwelling area of the main
structure, with a variance allowance of two percent (2%) thereof, exclusive of
one-story open porches and garages.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 6
RESERVED
[Chapter repealed by Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020]
CHAPTER 7
B-1 BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Use Regulations
10-7-2: Parking Regulations
10-7-3: Height Regulations
10-7-4: Area Regulations
10-7-5: Business Permit Required
10-7-6: Residency Prohibited
10-7-7: Miscellaneous Regulations
10-7-1: USE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   A building or premises within the B-1 business and commercial district
may be used for, but not necessarily limited to, the following purposes:
   Bakery.
   Bank.
   Barbershop or beauty shop.
   Business or commercial school, or dancing academy.
   Catering establishment.
   Class III and IV garages.
   Clinics (medical-dental).
   Dyeing and cleaning works using a fluid whose base is of a material other
than petroleum or any of its derivatives.
   Electric or repair shop.
   Filling stations.
   Hospitals and clinic for animals but not open kennels.
   Hotel or motel.
   Laundry.
   Lumberyard (with solid enclosure).
   Messenger and telegraph service station.
   Offices.
   Painting and decorating shop.
   Photograph gallery.
   Plumbing shop.
   Recreation or amusement center.
   Restaurant.
   Sales or showroom.
   Service establishments.
   Shoe repair shops.
   Store for the collection and distribution of laundry and dry cleaning.
   Store or shop for the conduct of retail business.
   Tailor shop.
   Theater, except open air drive-in theaters; provided, however, that no
theater shall be erected or reconstructed unless there is provided on the lot
or within three hundred feet (300') thereof, parking space to accommodate one
automobile for every five (5) seats in the theater.
   Tinsmithing and machine shops.
   Tire repair shop.
   Undertaking establishment.
   Used car sales or storage lots but excluding the salvage of automobiles or
of parts thereof.
   Woodworking.
   It is understood that the above designated business establishments or any
other establishments approved for commercial operation within the village
limits shall in no manner be of such nature to be noxious or offensive to the
residents of adjacent areas. Complaints of such nature may be made either to
the zoning enforcement officer or directly to the planning and zoning
commission. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7-2: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Off street parking space shall be provided at the rate of one space for each
three hundred (300) square feet of floor area in the building which is used for
commercial purposes.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30')
in height in the B-1 business and commercial district except as otherwise
provided in chapter 10 of this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback which
shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from the street to provide a parking
area.
   (B)   Side Yard: The side yard requirements are the same as the front yard
when the building abuts a street on two (2) sides, that is, on the front and
one side. Otherwise there shall be a minimum side yard requirement of five feet
(5') from the property line, which shall be left unobstructed.
   (C)   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall be ten feet (10') from the lot line and
shall be left open. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7-5: BUSINESS PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Any person or entity wishing to open a business or change any business
in the B-1 business and commercial district must apply for and obtain a
business permit from the Village Clerk of North Pekin.
   (B)   Application forms for the necessary business permit shall be available
at the village hall and must be returned to the village hall when completed. A
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) must be submitted with every application
for a permit.
   (C)   This permit is in addition to any county or state requirements for
permits and/or licenses and does not supersede any requirements imposed by the
county of Tazewell or state of Illinois.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7-6: RESIDENCY PROHIBITED:
No person or family shall be allowed to reside within a B-1 business and
commercial district. A B-1 business and commercial district is not a dwelling
district pursuant to section
10-1-1 "Dwelling District" of this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7-7: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Ingress and egress shall enter and exit off of a public street only,
and shall not conflict with adjacent business uses or general traffic flow.
   (B)   A six foot (6') obscuring wall or fence must be provided where
abutting or adjacent to a residential zoned district.
   (C)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts and
from abutting streets.
   (D)   All restroom doors shall be shielded from adjoining properties.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 7A
B-2 BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Use Regulations
10-7A-2: Special Uses
10-7A-3: Miscellaneous Regulations
10-7A-4: Height Regulations
10-7A-5: Area Regulations
10-7A-6: Prior Nonconforming Use
10-7A-7: Permit Required
10-7A-1: USE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   A building or premises in the B-2 business and commercial district may
be used for, but not necessarily limited to, the following purposes:
   Bakeries.
   Banks and savings and loan offices.
   Barber and/or beauty shops.
   Craft shops - selling and/or making.
   Dance and/or tumbling academies.
   Executive, administrative or professional offices.
   Flower shops.
   Gift shops.
   Government offices or other government uses.
   Laundromats and/or dry cleaning shops.
   Medical and dental offices, including clinics.
   Medical or dental clinics.
   Photograph galleries.
   Publicly owned buildings and public utility offices.
   Restaurants.
   Shoe repair shops.
   Tailoring or seamstress shops.
   It is understood that the above designated business establishments or any
other establishments approved for commercial operation within the village
limits shall in no manner be of such nature to be noxious or offensive to the
residents of adjacent areas. Complaints of such nature may be made either to
the zoning enforcement officer or directly to the planning and zoning
commission.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7A-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted subject to the provisions in this
chapter. Any person or entity proposing to utilize any property for one of the
following special uses shall submit a site plan and use plan to the planning
and zoning commission. The planning and zoning commission shall review the site
plan and use plan, conduct a hearing and submit a recommendation to the village
board. The village board may permit said special use subject to such conditions
as the village board deems appropriate. Special uses which may be permitted,
subject to the conditions herein, are as follows:
   Electric repair and/or small appliance repair shops.
   Garden and/or lawn sales and repair.
   Hardware stores.
   Sign shops.
   Store or shop for light retail business.
   Other uses which are similar to the above uses are permissible special uses
with board approval.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7A-3: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Off street parking space shall be provided at the rate of one space
for each three hundred (300) square feet of floor area in the building which is
used for commercial purposes.
   (B)   Ingress and egress shall enter and exit off of a public street only,
and shall not conflict with adjacent business uses or general traffic flow.
   (C)   A six foot (6') obscuring wall or fence must be provided where
abutting or adjacent to a residential zoned district.
   (D)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts and
from abutting streets.
   (E)   All restroom doors shall be shielded from adjoining properties.
   (F)   It is further understood that any living quarters constructed within
the B-2 designated area must have a minimum of five hundred twenty five (525)
square feet of living area and appropriate electric, water, sewer and sanitary
utilities.
   (G)   Any use of semi-trailers or cargo containers shall be allowed only by
a viable, on-site business and shall be governed by section
6-3-2-10 of this Code.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7A-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30')
in height in the B-2 District except as otherwise provided in this chapter. 
(Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7A-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback which
shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from the property line to provide a
parking area.
   (B)   Side Yard: The side yard requirements are the same as the front yard
when the building abuts a street on two (2) sides, that is, on the front and
one side. Otherwise, there shall be a minimum side yard requirement of five
feet (5') from the property line, which shall be left unobstructed.
   (C)   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall be ten feet (10') from the property
line, which shall be left unobstructed.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7A-6: PRIOR NONCONFORMING USE:
The area designated as being zoned B-2 Business and Commercial District shall
be subject to the following provision:
Any present use which does not conform to the uses outlined in a B-2 Business
and Commercial Zoning District may remain in its current use as long as said
property is maintained in that use by the same owner. However, once said
property is sold, or if there is any change in any ownership of the business
conducted upon said property or if said property's use changes from the use in
existence at the time of passage hereof, said property must comply with B-
2 Business and Commercial Zoning District approved zoning requirements.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
10-7A-7: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Any person or entity wishing to open a business or change any business
in the B-2 Business and Commercial District must apply for and obtain a
business permit from the Village Clerk of North Pekin.
   (B)   Application forms for the necessary business permit shall be available
at the Village Hall and must be returned to the Village Hall when completed. A
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) must be submitted with every application
for a permit.
   (C)   The application shall then be submitted to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, who shall either approve or reject the application for business
permit. If the business permit is rejected by the Zoning Enforcement Officer,
the person or entity shall be entitled to appeal that decision to the Planning
and Zoning Commission, within thirty five (35) days of the rejection.
   (D)   If the business permit is approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer,
a business permit shall immediately be issued to the person or entity
submitting the application. The business permit must be prominently displayed
in the business establishment.
   (E)   This business permit is in addition to any County or State
requirements for business permits and/or licenses and does not supersede any
requirements imposed by the County of Tazewell or State of Illinois.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 8
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (LIGHT)
SECTION:
10-8-1: Use Regulations
10-8-2: Parking Regulations
10-8-3: Height Regulations
10-8-4: Area Regulations
10-8-5: Permit Required
10-8-6: Residency Prohibited
10-8-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to herein are the district regulations in the I-1 industrial
district (light).
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   Any use permitted in the B-1 business and commercial district.
   Blacksmith shop.
   Bottling works.
   Coal yards.
   Dyeing and cleaning establishments.
   Industrial and manufacturing plants, where the operations are conducted in
one or more buildings and not more than ten percent (10%) of the tract is used
for open storage of products, materials or equipment.
   Lumber or building materials yard.
   Milk distribution station.
   Painting plants.
   Public utility substations and facilities.
   Warehouses and storage plants.
   Wholesale establishments.
   Wholesale storage of oil, gasoline or other petroleum products.  (Ord. 1040,
8-10-2020)
10-8-2: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Parking space shall be provided on the lot or in a building on the lot adequate
to accommodate the vehicles of the employees, customers and delivery
personnel.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-8-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty five feet (45') in height
in the I-1 district.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-8-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback which
shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from the street to provide a parking
area.
   (B)   Side Yard: The side yard requirements are the same as the front yard
when the building abuts a street on two (2) sides, that is, on the front and
one side. Otherwise, there shall be a minimum side yard requirement of five
feet (5') from the property line, which shall be left unobstructed.
   (C)   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall be ten feet (10') from the lot line and
shall be left open.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-8-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Any person or entity wishing to open a business or change any business
in the I-1 industrial district (light) must apply for and obtain a business
permit from the Village Clerk of North Pekin.
   (B)   Application forms for the necessary business permit shall be available
at the village hall and must be returned to the village hall when completed. A
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) must be submitted with every application
for a business permit.
   (C)   This business permit is in addition to any county or state
requirements for business permits and/or licenses and does not supersede any
requirements imposed by the county of Tazewell or state of Illinois.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
10-8-6: RESIDENCY PROHIBITED:
No person or family shall be allowed to reside within an I-1 industrial
district (light). An I-1 industrial district (light) is not a dwelling district
pursuant to section
10-1-1 of this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 9
I-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (HEAVY)
SECTION:
10-9-1: Use Regulations
10-9-2: Parking Regulations
10-9-3: Height Regulations
10-9-4: Area Regulations
10-9-5: Permit Required
10-9-6: Residency Prohibited
10-9-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to herein are the district regulations in the I-2 industrial
district (heavy).
All uses not otherwise prohibited by law, except any residential use; provided,
however, that no building permit shall be issued for any of the following uses
until or unless the location of such use shall have been approved by the board
of trustees after a public hearing thereon by the planning commission, shall be
permitted in the I-2 district:
   Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture.
   Ammunition manufacture and/or storage.
   Animal black, lampblack or bone black manufacture.
   Arsenal.
   Bone distillation.
   Carbon manufacture.
   Celluloid manufacture.
   Coal distillation.
   Coke ovens.
   Dead animal and offal reduction.
   Distillation of tar.
   Explosives, fireworks and gunpowder manufacture or storage.
   Fat rendering.
   Grease, lard or tallow manufactured or refined from animals.
   Hair manufacture.
   Hog farm.
   Incineration, reduction, storage or dumping of slaughterhouse refuse, rancid
fats, dead animals or offal.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-9-2: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Parking space shall be provided on the lot or in a building on the lot adequate
to accommodate the cars of the employees of any of the uses permitted in this
district as well as the trucks and other vehicles owned by or in custody of the
establishment.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-9-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty five feet (45') in height
in the I-2 district.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-9-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback which
shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from the street to provide a parking
area.
   (B)   Side Yard: The side yard requirements are the same as the front yard
when the building abuts a street on two (2) sides, that is, on the front and
one side. Otherwise, there shall be a minimum side yard requirement of five
feet (5') from the property line, which shall be left unobstructed.
   (C)   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall be ten feet (10') from the lot line and
shall be left open.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-9-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Any person or entity wishing to open a business or change any business
in the I-2 industrial district (heavy) must apply for and obtain a business
permit from the Village Clerk of North Pekin.
   (B)   Application forms for the necessary business  permit shall be
available at the Village Hall and must be returned to the Village Hall when
completed. A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) must be submitted with every
application for a business permit.
   (C)   This business permit is in addition to any county or state
requirements for permits and/or licenses and does not supersede any
requirements imposed by the county of Tazewell or state of Illinois.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
10-9-6: RESIDENCY PROHIBITED:
No person or family shall be allowed to reside within an I-2 industrial
district (heavy). An I-2 industrial district (heavy) is not a dwelling district
pursuant to section
10-1-1 of this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES; SPECIAL PERMITS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Nonconforming Uses; Continuance; Removal
10-10-2: Special Use Permits
10-10-1: NONCONFORMING USES; CONTINUANCE; REMOVAL:
If a building is being used for a lawful purpose at the time of the adoption of
this title, the building can continue to be used for said purpose,
notwithstanding the fact that said use does not conform to the provisions of
this title, where the continued use of the premises is allowed by a majority
vote of the village board of trustees after notice, hearing and recommendation
by the planning and zoning commission.
Where a building that has been used for a nonconforming use is changed to be
used for a more restricted use or a conforming use, the building loses its
ability to be used for a less restricted use again unless the continued use of
the premises is allowed by a majority vote of the village board of trustees
after notice, hearing and recommendation by the planning and zoning commission.
Where a building that has previously been recognized as a nonconforming use is
damaged by fire, explosion, acts of God, or criminal conduct to the extent that
its value has been reduced by fifty percent (50%) or more, the building may
only be restored in conformity with the regulations of this title, unless the
restoration of the structure to replicate the previously existing structure is
allowed by a majority vote of the village board of trustees after notice,
hearing and recommendation by the planning and zoning commission.
Where a building that has previously been recognized as lawfully allowing a
nonconforming use, and where the use of the building or premises has been
discontinued or stopped for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or more,
all uses thereafter shall conform to the regulations of the district where it
is located, unless the continued use of the premises is allowed by a majority
vote of the village board of trustees after notice, hearing and recommendation
by the planning and zoning commission.
This provision also applies to districts whose zoning is hereinafter changed.
Any nonconforming structure in violation of this title may be validated under
this title at the election of the proper village officials, or may be ordered
removed or corrected by the proper officials at any time.
No commercial buildings shall exist in a dwelling district. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-
2020)
10-10-2: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   (A)   Overview:
      1.   Applicability: Special uses are uses which are appropriate for the
applicable zoning district only upon site specific review according to the
standards established by ordinance and upon approval of the village of North
Pekin. Review and determination of special uses shall be governed by the
provisions of this section. The nature of what special uses are allowable
within any given area and what restrictions are placed thereon shall be at the
discretion of the village. (Ord. 869, 12-8-2008; amd. Ord. 913, 2-14-2011)
      2.   Definitions:
 
          Any business conducted in property that is zoned R-1, R-2 or R-3,
          which may have an impact on the residents of the village of North
          Pekin, Illinois. A special use permit shall not be required for any
BUSINESS: business which does not have an impact on the residents of the
          village of North Pekin, Illinois, and/or which does not generate
          local sales tax revenues, including, but not limited to: paper
          routes, independent distributor business (such as Avon).
 
   (B)   Application and Review Procedure:
      1.   Special use permit applications may only be initiated by the fee
owners of the property, or his designated agent.
      2.   The planning and zoning commission shall conduct the application and
hearing process for all special use permits.
      3.   A nonrefundable initial application fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) shall be charged for all special use permit applications.
      4.   Along with submitting the special use permit application form,
applicants for a special use permit must also produce site plans depicting the
general layout of the parcel, a survey and legal description of the property
(where requested by the planning and zoning commission), a floor plan (where
applicable) and a letter stating the proposed use for the parcel, the
approximate gross floor area of existing or intended buildings or structures, a
statement that the applicable standards to the specific use have and will
continue to be met, and for businesses requiring licensing, a description of
client population, the state or county agency responsible for licensing the
facility, and proof of current license and a description of the types of
services to be provided on the property.
      5.   The planning and zoning commission shall study the application, make
relevant inquiry and conduct a publicly noticed hearing with regard to the
issuance of the special use permit in which they shall hear any evidence or
statement presented by the applicant or his representative or by other persons
attending the hearing, as well as consider any other written or oral statements
or evidence as they, in their sole discretion, deem relevant. The planning and
zoning commission shall make a written report of their findings, including any
recommended conditions of special use permit, if any, to the board of trustees
of the village of North Pekin, within sixty (60) days after acceptance of the
completed application.
      6.   The board of trustees shall review the written report and
recommendations of the planning and zoning commission toward the issuance of
the special use permit, and any recommended conditions. If the planning and
zoning commission recommends against the issuance of the special use permit,
the permit can only be issued if the village board votes for the same to be
issued by an affirmative two-thirds (2/3) vote of the elected members of the
village board of trustees. The village board of trustees shall grant or deny
the special use permit application within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
written report of the planning and zoning commission. In the event that the
village board of trustees does not take any action within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the written report of the planning and zoning commission, then said
application shall be placed on the agenda of each and every regular meeting of
the village board of trustees until the application is approved or rejected.
      7.   The village board of trustees may impose conditions upon any special
use permit issued which, if not complied with or which have been altered in
scope, application or design, shall be grounds for revocation of the special
use permit. All stipulations or conditions imposed on the issuance of any
special use permit shall be maintained in perpetuity with the special use.
   (C)   Renewal Of Special Use Permits:
      1.   Any special use permit issued prior to November 1, 2008, must be
renewed on or before December 31, 2009, by bringing documentation of the same
to the village hall and paying the newly instituted annual renewal fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). The holders of same will not be required to pay a
new application fee for the renewal of same.
      2.   A record of all special use permits existing within the village of
North Pekin shall be maintained by the village of North Pekin. The village of
North Pekin shall provide a copy of all current special use permits to the
chief of police and the fire chief on an annual basis for the purpose of
assisting with enforcement and maintaining the peace.
      3.   All special use permits and renewals are good until December 31 of
the year following the date of issuance. A thirty (30) day grace period for
renewal of the permits shall begin on the first day following the expiration of
the special use permit. The permit holder may renew the permit at any time
during that thirty (30) day period. However, the date for the renewal begins
the date the permit expired regardless of the date the renewal fee is paid.
After the thirty (30) day grace period has expired, the special use permit
shall not be renewed and the permit holder must apply for a new special use
permit and pay all initial permit application fees if they seek to reapply for
a special use permit.
   (D)   Revocation of Special Use Permit:
      1.   Where the village obtains information regarding an alleged violation
of a special use permit, the village police department will investigate the
situation. If the police report indicates a violation may exist, the matter
shall be referred to the planning and zoning commission. A hearing before the
planning and zoning commission will be scheduled on the matter no later than
the second meeting from the date of the police report. The holder of the
special use permit will have an opportunity to respond to the allegations and
police report at said hearing.
      2.   Following a proper hearing before the planning and zoning
commission, the commission shall issue a written report and recommendation
regarding the revocation of the special use permit. The opinion shall be
forwarded to the village board of trustees, who shall make the final decision
as to the revocation of the permit. Said decision of the village board of
trustees shall be made within thirty (30) days of receipt of the written report
of the planning and zoning commission. In the event that the village board of
trustees does not take any action within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
written report of the planning and zoning commission, the recommendations of
the planning and zoning commission, shall be deemed accepted by the village of
North Pekin.
      3.   The revocation of the special use permit shall require the permit
holder to stop the use authorized by the special use permit.
      4.   After revocation, the special use permit holder may not reapply for
a reissuance of a special use permit within one hundred eighty (180) days of
the revocation action. In this instance, all fees shall apply as if there had
never been a special use permit issued.
      5.   The decision of the village board of trustees is final. Any appeal
of the decision shall be to the Tazewell County circuit court. (Ord. 869, 12-8-
2008)
   (E)   General Restrictions With Regard To Special Use Permits:
      1.   A business operating under a special use permit within a residential
district of the village of North Pekin is permitted to have a single sign
advertising the business which meets the following requirements:
         (a)   The sign shall be no larger than twenty four inches (24") high
by thirty six inches (36") wide;
         (b)   The sign shall be purchased or constructed to be placed or
driven into the ground such as a real estate sign, with a maximum frame height
of forty one inches (41") high by thirty seven inches (37") wide;
         (c)   Sign shall be removable and not permanently installed with
concrete or any other means other than driving frame into ground;
         (d)   No illumination is allowed;
         (e)   Special use permit number will be on both sides of sign in a
minimum of one inch (1") block letters;
         (f)   Sign shall be placed only on the owner's property and set back
beyond the village easement;
         (g)   Sign shall be removed upon expiration or revocation of the
special use permit.
      2.   All special use permits are issued contingent upon the requisite
number of fire extinguishers being present in the structure and compliance with
all public safety measures addressed by the village fire department.
      3.   The proprietor/manager of the business must be the petitioner and
permit holder for the special use permit. In addition, the petitioner must
specify the name and address of the owner of the property. If the petitioner
for a special use permit is not the owner of the property, the property owner
must supply written approval of the petitioner's intended use.
      4.   Only one nonresident employee is allowed at each business operating
under a special use permit.
      5.   Business can only be conducted from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. for businesses requiring the ingress and egress of
customers to the location of the business.
      6.   Permit holder is required to provide adequate parking for the
traffic created by their business.
      7.   Special use permit holders must locate, store and dispose of
business equipment, customer owned items, nonhazardous material, and hazardous
materials consistent with requirements placed on them by the village board of
trustees and/or the village fire department and village police department.
      8.   The village board of trustees may require fences or other measures
be taken to control offensive appearances, odors or sound levels created by the
existence of the special use.
      9.   If fencing is part of the plan for a special use permit, the
guidelines for the installation and existence thereof are located in section
10-2-7 of this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 11
COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN
SECTION:
10-11-1: Community Unit Plan
10-11-1: COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN:
The owner or owners of any tract of land may submit to the Village Board a plan
for the use and development of all of the tracts of land for residential and
allied purposes. The development plan shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for study and report and for a public hearing. If the zoning
committee approves the plans, they shall then be submitted to the Village Board
for consideration and approval. The approval and recommendations of the
Planning Commission shall be accompanied by a report stating the reasons for
approval or disapproval of the application and specific evidence that the
proposed community unit plan meets or does not meet with the following
conditions:
   (A)   The property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected.
   (B)   The plan is consistent with the intent and purposes of this Title to
promote public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
   (C)   The buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings or
multiple family contained in the site, excluding churches.
   (D)   The average lot area per family contained in the site, exclusive of
the area occupied by streets, will not be less than the lot area per family
required in the district in which the development is located. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-
2020)
CHAPTER 12
VARIANCES; AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Variances
10-12-2: Amendments
10-12-1: VARIANCES:
The district regulations hereinafter set forth shall qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this title.
   (A)   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a
height not exceeding sixty feet (60') and churches and temples may be erected
to a height not exceeding seventy five feet (75') if the building is set back
from each yard line at least one foot (1') for each foot of additional building
height above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in which the
building is located.
   (B)   Single-family and two-family dwellings may be increased in height by
not more than ten feet (10') when the side and rear yards are increased over
the yard requirements of the district in which they are located by not less
than ten feet (10'), but they shall not exceed three (3) stories in height.
   (C)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monument
stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers
and spires, church steeples, radio towers, or necessary mechanical
appurtenances, may be erected to a height in accordance with existing or
hereafter adopted provisions of this code.
   (D)   Accessory buildings may be built in a required rear yard but such
accessory buildings shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the
required rear yard.
   (E)   Whenever a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half (1/2) of the width of the
alley may be considered as a portion of the required rear yard. (Ord. 1040, 8-
10-2020)
10-12-2: AMENDMENTS:
The board of trustees may from time to time on its own motion or on petition
after report by the planning commission and after hearing and public notice of
such hearing given by one publication in the village at least fifteen (15) days
before the time of hearing, amend, supplement or change by ordinance the
regulations and districts herein or subsequently established. In case of
written protest against any proposed amendment signed and acknowledged by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of frontage proposed to be altered, or by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across
an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered as to such regulations or
district, filed with the clerk, such amendment shall not be passed except by
the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all of the members of the board of
trustees.
The village board shall not be required to take action for the conduct of a
hearing on petition by property owners to amend, supplement or change the
boundaries of any district or to reclassify any property, but whenever owners
of fifty percent (50%) or more of the street frontage in any block shall
present to the village board a petition, duly signed and acknowledged,
requesting such amendment or reclassification, it shall be the duty of the
village board to refer said petition to the planning commission to hold a
hearing thereon, as provided by statute.
Before any action shall be taken, as provided herein, the party or parties
petitioning for a change shall deposit with the village treasurer the sum of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to cover the costs involved with variance
petitions for such amendments, supplementation or change, and under no
conditions shall said sum or any part thereof be refunded for failure of said
petition, amendment, supplementation or change to be enacted into law. (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 13
ENFORCEMENT; PERMITS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Enforcement
10-13-2: Permits
10-13-1: ENFORCEMENT:
This title shall be enforced by the Zoning Enforcement Officer who shall be
appointed by the President of the Village Board, by and with the consent of the
Board. No building permit or demolition permit shall be issued by him except
where the provisions of this title shall have been complied with.
This title controls over the 2006 international building code in regard to
issuance of building permits. If conflicts arise with the 2006 international
building code, all permits are to be issued according to the requirements of
this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-13-2: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful to establish any use of a building, structure, or land,
either by itself or in addition to another use, or to erect a new building or
structure or part thereof, or to rebuild, structurally alter, add to or
relocate any building or structure, or part thereof, or to demolish any
building or structure or part thereof, without obtaining a permit from the
Zoning Enforcement Officer in accordance with the following regulations:
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this title, violations of any
provision of this title, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day
that a violation is continued or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense, and shall be punishable as such. 
   (A)   Permits:
      1.   Contents Of Application: Application for permits shall be filed in
written form with the Enforcement Officer, shall state the legal description of
the property, the name and address of the owner, the applicant, and the
contractor, the estimated costs, and shall describe the uses to be established
or expanded, or indicate why demolition is required and shall give such
information as may be required by this title for its proper enforcement.
      2.   Drawing: All applications for a building permit shall be accompanied
by a dimensioned drawing of the building plot showing the location of buildings
and structures, lot areas to be used, and auto parking areas.
      3.   Accessory Structures: Each permit issued for a main building shall
also cover any accessory structures or buildings to be constructed or
demolished at the same time on the same premises, and such permit shall be
posted in plain sight on the premises for which it is issued, until completion
of construction or demolition.
      4.   Documents To Be Filed: All applications and a copy of all permits
issued shall be systematically filed and kept by the Village Clerk for ready
reference.
      5.   Permit Fees: To partially defray the expenses for reviewing the
plans of said property, the following fees shall be charged by the Village at
the time a permit is issued:
                                                                 $150.00 first 1,200 square feet, excluding basement,
(a) Single family dwelling, with or without attached garage     $10.00 per 100 square feet, or fraction thereof,
                                                                 thereafter 
                                                                 $300.00 first 2,000 square feet, excluding basement,
(b) Two family dwelling                                         $10.00 per 100 square feet, or fraction thereof,
                                                                 thereafter 
(c) Multiple family dwelling                                    $200.00 per unit for first 700 square feet, $10.00 per
                                                                 100 square feet, or fraction thereof, thereafter 
(d) Residential addition or alteration (for categories in        $50.00 per first 500 square feet, $10.00 per 100
    subsections (A)5(a), (A)5(b), and (A)5(c) of this section)  square feet, or fraction thereof, thereafter 
(e) Construction of detached Class 1 garage or accessory         $100.00 first 750 square feet, $10.00 per 100 square
    building                                                    feet, or fraction thereof, thereafter 
(f) Move any building or structure                              $100.00 
(g) For a new principal structure for commercial, church or not- $3.00 per $1,000.00 construction cost ($100.00
    for-profit use                                              minimum) 
(h) Addition or alteration to commercial, church or not-for-     $3.00 per $1,000.00 construction cost ($100.00
    profit structure                                            minimum) 
(i) Demolition                                                  $100.00 
    For a construction permit to construct a driveway only in
(j) the Village. (This permit is not required if one of the      100.00 
    above permits has been issued for the current project.) 
(k) For a construction permit for the removal of any Village     100.00 
    curb for the purpose of making entrance 
 
      Individuals applying for a permit will make application at the Village
Hall. A ten dollar ($10.00) processing fee will be charged at that time.
Subsequently, the Zoning Enforcement Officer will review the application and
the proposed construction or demolition site. Upon approval of the application,
a permit will be issued. Payment of the permit fee may be made by the applicant
either at the Village Hall or to the Zoning Enforcement Officer, who shall
remit said fee to the Village on a regular basis. No refund of the processing
fee or permit fee will be made.
      Building permits issued for work in Village residential districts shall
be valid for twelve (12) months from the date issued. If the structure is not
completed within that time, a new permit, which will add six (6) months to the
completion date, will be required at a cost of one and one-half (11/2) times of
the original permit fee. Noncompletion of the structure by the end of the six
(6) month extension may result in a stop work order being issued and/or review
by the Village Board and Village Attorney for possible legal action.
   Permits issued for work in Village business, commercial or industrial
districts shall be valid for eighteen (18) months from the date issued. At that
time, a new permit, extending the completion date by twelve (12) months, may be
issued at one and one-half (11/2) times of the original permit fee.
Noncompletion of the structure by the end of the twelve (12) month extension
may result in review by the Village Board and Village Attorney for possible
legal action.
      A demolition permit shall be valid for six (6) months from the date
issued. If the demolition is not completed within that time, a new permit,
valid for an additional six (6) months will be required at a cost of two (2)
times the original permit fee. Noncompletion of demolition within the twelve
(12) months of the original permit will be subject to review by the Village
Board and Village Attorney for possible legal action.
      A permit may be revoked under the following circumstances:
         (a)   If any work or change in use authorized by the permit has not
substantially begun within ninety (90) days of issuance; or
         (b)   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer finds by his personal
observation or from competent evidence that the rules and regulations under
which it has been issued have been violated.
      Any work on-site subsequent to such revocation shall require that a new
permit be applied for and issued at one and one-half (11/2) times the original
permit fee. The new permit will be subject to the same time to complete
requirements and penalties for noncompliance as any other new permit.
      6.   Size: A building permit shall be required for any proposed
structure, either temporarily or permanently affixed, with greater than one
hundred forty four (144) square feet of floor area.
      7.   Replacement: Subsection (A)5 of this section is hereby declared to
supersede and replace any conflicting provisions contained in the 2006
International Building Code which has been incorporated in title 4, chapter 1,
of this Code heretofore adopted.
      8.   Stop Work Orders: To defray additional cost of administering "stop
work" orders posted by the Zoning Enforcement Officer as a result of
construction or demolition without the appropriate permit as required herein,
or construction or demolition contrary to the authority of the permit, there
shall be an additional charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00). If the stop
work order is placed on construction outside the authority of the permit and it
is found that the Village was at fault on the authority of the permit, then the
one hundred dollars ($100.00) charged shall be refunded. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 14
INTERPRETATION; VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Interpretation
10-14-2: Violations
10-14-1: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Title shall be
held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public
health, morals, safety and the general welfare. Wherever the requirements of
any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances shall apply, the
most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
It is not intended by this Title to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
impair or interfere with private restrictions placed upon property by covenant,
deed or other private agreement, or with restrictive covenants running with the
land. Where this Title imposes a greater restriction upon land, buildings or
structures than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of law,
ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this Title shall control. (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
10-14-2: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Title shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished therefor as in this Code provided.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this Title, the proper authorities of the Village in
addition to other remedies may institute any appropriate action or proceedings
to prevent such unlawful erection, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or
abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or
land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such
premises. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 15
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Purpose
10-15-2: Streets
10-15-3: Utility Easements
10-15-4: Gas Mains, Electrical Distribution Lines
10-15-5: Monuments
10-15-6: Water Mains, Fire Hydrants
10-15-7: Streetlights
10-15-8: Street Signs
10-15-9: Maintenance Of Streets; Bonds
10-15-10: Inspection Of Improvements
10-15-1: PURPOSE:
The Board of Trustees of the Village is called upon to accept subdivisions for
and on behalf of the Village, whereby the Village assumes certain
responsibilities, including responsibilities for the care and maintenance of
the streets included in said subdivisions, and that for the purpose of the
present and future development of the Village and for the promotion of the
public health and safety, comfort, morals and welfare of the persons living
within the territory governed, the provisions and regulations hereinafter
contained shall govern the subdividing and platting of lands lying within the
corporate limits of the Village. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-15-2: STREETS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the Village unless the streets therein
platted shall have a minimum width of fifty feet (50') and are graded with
thirty six feet (36') of roadway between the curbs. All streets shall be
blacktopped with curbs and gutters approved by the Village Engineer. Unless
otherwise required hereunder all lots shall be provided with entrance culverts
of reinforced concrete or standard culvert pipe being a minimum of twelve
inches (12") in diameter by fifteen feet (15') in length, by parties other than
the Board. If deemed necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the
Village, the Superintendent of Public Works or, in his absence, a person
designated by the Village Board may require any lot to have an entrance culvert
in excess of the minimum standard. The full dedicated width of all streets
shall be brought to the appropriate elevation of the grade established, and in
no case below or more than one foot (1') above the established grade. It is
further provided that dead-end streets and dead-end courts of all kinds shall
be avoided where practical, however, subdivisions shall be accepted wherein
courts are provided with a minimum width of fifty feet (50') with a traveled
way of thirty six feet (36') and with a turnaround having an inside diameter of
not less than fifty five feet (55') in which case sufficient footage of the
turnaround will be dedicated to facilitate future improvements.
All dimensions listed in this Chapter unless otherwise specifically provided
represent minimum requirements.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-15-3: UTILITY EASEMENTS:
No subdivision shall be accepted unless provision is made for utility easements
deemed by the Village Board to be adequate and proper.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-15-4: GAS MAINS, ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION LINES:
No subdivision shall be accepted unless adequate gas mains and electrical
distribution lines, wherever the same shall be available, shall be provided or
arranged for by the subdivider prior to acceptance.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-15-5: MONUMENTS:
No subdivisions shall be accepted until steel pipes or rods or concrete posts
shall be installed at all block corners and other survey control points for use
as permanent monuments.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-15-6: WATER MAINS, FIRE HYDRANTS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the Village unless the subdivider shall
have provided or arranged for adequate water main installations and proper fire
hydrants in a minimum number at locations for proper fire protection in
accordance with and subject to the approval of the Village Water Commission,
and the rental for said fire hydrants shall be paid for by said subdivider in
advance for a minimum period of three (3) tax years subsequent to acceptance of
said subdivision.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-15-7: STREETLIGHTS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless the subdivider shall
have provided the same with proper streetlights in a minimum number and
location for proper lighting in accordance with the approval of the engineer of
the village and the estimated cost of the village for electricity and
maintenance of said streetlights for a minimum period of three (3) tax years
subsequent to the acceptance of said subdivision shall be paid for by said
subdivider in advance prior to the acceptance of the subdivision.  (Ord. 1040,
8-10-2020)
10-15-8: STREET SIGNS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless appropriate street and
traffic control signs shall be erected or arranged for at each street
intersection within the subdivision. The subdivider shall pay for all expense
and cost of materials and labor to install any and all signs deemed necessary
or appropriate and approved by the village board. The type of signs and
location thereof shall be subject to the approval and direction of the village
board at its discretion.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-15-9: MAINTENANCE OF STREETS; BOND:
As a condition to the acceptance of any subdivision, the person or persons
presenting said subdivision for acceptance shall agree to maintain the streets
of said subdivision for a period of three (3) years from the date of completion
of application of the final top coat on said street. Said person shall post
with the village board a surety bond, as provided by law, and approved by the
board, in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the cost of the original paving of
streets lying within the limits of the map or plat. The bond shall remain in
force until the provisions of this chapter are complied with and then released,
in writing, by the president of the board.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-15-10: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements to be made under the provisions of this chapter shall be
inspected during the course of construction by the village engineer and the
subdivider will reimburse the village for the cost of such inspections. The
final acceptance of all such improvements shall be subject to the approval
thereof by the village board and the village engineer. Subdividers are urged to
avail themselves of the advice and assistance of the street maintenance and
improvement committee of the village and to consult with this committee before
preparation of the plat and before formal application for its approval is
made.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 16
M-1 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-16-1: Use Regulations
10-16-2: Area Regulations
10-16-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth herein, or set forth elsewhere in this Title when
referred to in this Chapter, are the district regulations in the M-1 Mobile
Home Park District.
Premises shall be used only for the following purposes: harbor mobile homes and
travel trailers, and such facilities as are needed to ensure maximum beneficial
use of said structures.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-16-2: AREA REGULATIONS:
The regulations pertaining to area in regards to mobile home parks will be the
same as those set out in Title 3, Chapter 10 of this Code. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-
2020)
CHAPTER 17
R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-17-1: Use Regulations
10-17-2: Area Regulations
10-17-3: Parking Regulations
10-17-4: Height Regulations
10-17-5: Site Plan Approval
10-17-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth herein, or set forth elsewhere in this Title when
referred to in this Chapter, are the district regulations in the R-4 Multiple-
Family Dwelling District.
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings must meet the requirements of a single family
dwelling with a minimum of nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of foot print
of main structure, with a variance allowance of two percent (2%) thereof,
exclusive of one-story open porches and garages, or eight hundred (800) square
feet with full basement.
   (B)   Two-family and multiple-family dwellings with a minimum of six hundred
(600) square feet per apartment, exclusive of one-story open porches and
garages, with a variance allowance of two percent (2%) thereof.
   (C)   Accessory buildings including a Class I garage and accessory uses
customarily incident to the above uses. Accessory buildings shall also include
church or school bulletin boards and signs not exceeding twenty (20) square
feet in area and temporary signs appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of the
premises on which it is located. Such temporary sign shall not exceed ten (10)
square feet in area.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-17-2: AREA REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Density: The number of families occupying a lot or tract of land shall
not exceed the whole number resulting from dividing the area of the lot or
tract by two thousand (2,000).
   (B)   Front Yard: No building shall be erected or extended to a point closer
than twenty five feet (25') from any street. When the setback of the houses on
the street are uniformly in line, the new construction or any addition must be
built to maintain continuity of the prevailing setback of the existing
dwellings.
   (C)   Side Yard: There shall be side yard on each side of a building having
a width of not less than ten percent (10%) of the lot width. In no case shall a
side yard be less than five feet (5'), except that a detached garage or other
accessory building located sixty feet (60') or more from the front property
line and having a wall roughly parallel to the side lot line twenty four feet
(24') or less in length may be located within two feet (2') of the side lot
line.
      A side yard need not exceed twenty feet (20') in width.
   (D)   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall have a depth of at least twenty percent
(20%) of the lot depth, but in no case less than twenty feet (20'). Rear yard
depth need not exceed forty feet (40').
   (E)   Lot Coverage: The total lot area covered by all buildings on a lot
shall not exceed twenty percent (20%).
   (F)   Space Between Buildings: When more than one building containing
apartments is located on a lot the distance between opposing walls of any two
(2) buildings containing apartments shall be at least thirty feet (30'), if
either wall contains windows within the portions where the walls overlap, or
fifteen feet (15') if neither wall contains windows within the portions where
they overlap.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-17-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of two (2) spaces for each
apartment. Such space shall not be located within twenty five feet (25') of any
street, not less than five feet (5') of any side or rear lot line, unless
located within a detached garage or carport which is located sixty feet (60')
or more from the front property line and such garage or carport has a wall
roughly parallel to the adjoining lot line twenty four feet (24') or less in
length, in which case it may be located not less than two feet (2') from that
lot line or lines.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-17-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30')
in height in the R-4 District.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-17-5: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
All principal uses involving the housing of more than three (3) families upon a
separate lot shall be permitted only after review and approval of the site
plans for such use have been recommended by the Zoning Board after a public
hearing thereon and approved by the Village Board. In its review the Zoning
Board shall seek the advice of the Village Engineer, Superintendent of the
Village Sewer and Water Department, and the Chief of the Fire Department, as
deemed appropriate. Subsequent development of the site shall comply with the
approved site plan.
   (A)   The site plan, at a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100'), shall show the following: existing and proposed property
lines, streets, easements and utilities; existing and proposed contours at five
foot (5') intervals or less as deemed necessary to adequately show topography;
watercourses and existing drainage facilities; wooded areas and significant
isolated trees; existing buildings and structures with an indicator of those
which will be removed and those to be retained, and including those buildings
and structures on immediately adjoining land. The site plan shall also show the
proposed development, including all buildings, structures and other
improvements with the number of dwelling units in each building shown thereon;
streets, vehicular drives and off-street parking facilities, including the
number of spaces to be provided pedestrian paths; open spaces and recreation
areas, including type of surfacing, intended use, landscaping, including size
and type of plant material; type, height and intensity of external
illumination; placement, type and screening of solid waste/garbage storage
facilities; fencing or landscape screening and buffering of the development
perimeter; size, design, placement and illumination of any signs intended to be
viewed from outside the development perimeter; location and size of all
utilities, and for storm drainage, the outfall point.
   (B)   The site plan shall be accompanied by the following: elevations or
perspectives of all buildings and improvements sufficient to convey the
developer's intent; a development schedule indicating the approximate date for
beginning construction; the stages in which the project will be built with
dates of beginning construction and completion.
   (C)   In reviewing a site plan for approval, the Zoning Board shall give due
consideration to the following:
      1.   The impact the development would have on immediately surrounding
properties.
      2.   The effect the development will have on streets giving access to the
site.
      3.   The impact on sanitary sewer and water supplies and on the ability
of existing storm sewers and surface watercourses to handle increased flows
generated by the development.
      4.   The extent to which the proposed development will meet the needs for
housing for low and moderate income residents of the Village, and up to its
proportionate share of the metropolitan area's need for adequate housing for
low and moderate income persons.
      5.   If a development is proposed to be phased, the Board shall find that
any particular phase, either of itself or taken together with phases previously
completed, meets all of the yard, open space and parking requirements of this
Chapter.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 18
FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Purpose
10-18-2: Definitions
10-18-3: Base Flood Elevation
10-18-4: Duties Of The Zoning Officer
10-18-5: Development Permit
10-18-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
10-18-7: Protecting Buildings
10-18-8: Subdivision Requirements
10-18-9: Public Health And Other Standards
10-18-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
10-18-11: Variances
10-18-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-18-13: Penalty
10-18-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-18-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this Village
by the Illinois Municipal Code 1  in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2.
10-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
               The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or exceeded in
BASE FLOOD:    any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
               flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
               10-18-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD
ELEVATION      The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the crest of the base flood.
(BFE):
BASEMENT:      That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
               A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank that is
               principally above ground including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings
BUILDING:      and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
               travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days
               per year.
               Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the population and,
               if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster. Damage to these
               critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital services, can cause greater
               damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special populations at risk.
CRITICAL       Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
FACILITY:      include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
               schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads and
               bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
               transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
               petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
               Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily limited to:
               (A)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a building,
               or any structural alteration to a building;
               (B)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
               (C)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
               manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
               hundred eighty (180) days per year;
               (D)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
               similar projects;
DEVELOPMENT:   (E)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
               (F)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
               alterations of the ground surface;
               (G)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
               tanks; and
               (H)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
               direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
               "Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
               facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices that
               do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
               A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
EXISTING       for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or
MANUFACTURED   buildings to be constructed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
HOME PARK OR   utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
SUBDIVISION:   pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the
               floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
AN EXISTING    servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
MANUFACTURED   the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR   grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
FEMA:          Federal Emergency Management Agency.
               A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
FLOOD:         dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation, or the
               runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE:  That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory floodway.
FLOOD          A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency that depicts the
INSURANCE RATE floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map
MAP:           includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict floodways and show base
               flood elevations.
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if
INSURANCE      appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
STUDY:
FLOOD
PROTECTION     The elevation of the base flood plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given
ELEVATION      location in the floodplain.
(FPE):
               These two (2) terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
               Village of North Pekin, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of North
               Pekin, or that may be annexed into the Village of North Pekin, that are subject
               to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the Village of North Pekin
FLOODPLAIN AND are generally identified as such on panel numbers 40, 160 and 180 of the
SPECIAL FLOOD  Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Tazewell prepared by the Federal Emergency
HAZARD AREA    Management Agency and dated February 17, 2017. Floodplain also includes those
(SFHA):        areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
               The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Tazewell County that are within
               the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of North Pekin or that may be
               annexed into the Village of North Pekin are generally identified as such on the
               Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared for Tazewell County by the Federal Emergency
               Management Agency and dated February 17, 2017.
               Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments
FLOODPROOFING: to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate, property and
               their contents.
FLOODPROOFING  A form published by the Federal Emergency Management Agency that is used to
CERTIFICATE:   certify that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
               flood proofed to the flood protection elevation.
               That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base flood. The
               floodway for the floodplains of Illinois River and Little Lick Creek shall be as
FLOODWAY:      delineated on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Tazewell prepared by
               FEMA and dated February 17, 2017. The floodways for each of the remaining
               floodplains of the Village of North Pekin shall be according to the best data
               available from the Federal, State, or other sources.
               An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to provide a factor
FREEBOARD:     of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed development,
               unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as
               those caused by ice or debris jams.
               Any structure that is:
               (A)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
               preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
               requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
HISTORIC       (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
STRUCTURE:     contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined by
               the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
               (C)   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
               Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
               (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has been
               certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
IDNR/OWR:      Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water Resources.
               Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water Resources has
               jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary area of six hundred forty (640)
               acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream serving a
IDNR/OWR       tributary area of six thousand four hundred (6,400) acres or more in a rural
JURISDICTIONAL area. Construction on these streams requires a permit from the Department (Ill.
STREAM:        Admin. Code title 17, part 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for
               specific types of activities by issuance of a Statewide permit which meets the
               standards defined in section
               10-18-6 of this chapter.
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
               or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
               access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
LOWEST FLOOR:  building's lowest floor. Provided that such enclosure is not built so as to
               render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
               requirements of section
               10-18-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED   A structure transportable in one or more sections that is built on a permanent
HOME:          chassis and is designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when
               connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more lots for
HOME PARK OR   rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
NFIP:          National Flood Insurance Program.
NEW            Structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
CONSTRUCTION:  effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and
               includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
               A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
NEW            for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or
MANUFACTURED   buildings to be constructed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
HOME PARK OR   utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
SUBDIVISION:   pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of the
               floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
               A vehicle which is:
RECREATIONAL   (A)   Built on a single chassis;
VEHICLE OR     (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
TRAVEL         (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck
TRAILER:       and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
               living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
               Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2) separate occasions
REPETITIVE     during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each
LOSS:          such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of
               the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SFHA:          See definition of floodplain.
               Includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
               issued. This, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
               rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement, was within one hundred
               eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
START OF       placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring
CONSTRUCTION:  of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or
               any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a
               foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the
               first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a
               building whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
               building.
STRUCTURE:     See definition of building.
               Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cumulative percentage
               of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter equals or exceeds fifty
SUBSTANTIAL    percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
DAMAGE:        regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must be
               included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive loss buildings"
               (see definition).
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a structure taking
               place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the cumulative
               percentage of improvements:
               (A)   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
               before the improvement or repair is started; or
               (B)   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
               "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
SUBSTANTIAL    wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether
IMPROVEMENT:   or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. This
               term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or substantial
               damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
               The term does not include:
               (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing State or
               local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications which are solely necessary
               to assure safe living conditions, or
               (B)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
               Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
               The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:     without the required Federal, State, and/or local permits and elevation
               certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as the documentation
               is provided.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
 
10-18-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Illinois River and
Little Lick Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
Countywide Flood Insurance Study of Tazewell prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated February 17, 2017.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH
Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Tazewell County.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A Zone" on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of
Tazewell County shall be according to the best data available from Federal,
State or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Tazewell County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the Village of North Pekin, or that may be annexed into the
Village of North Pekin, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles
in the Flood Insurance Study of Tazewell County prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated February 17, 2017.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-
2020)
10-18-4: DUTIES OF THE ZONING OFFICER:
The Zoning Officer shall be responsible for the general administration of this
chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains under
the jurisdiction of the Village of North Pekin meet the requirements of this
chapter. Specifically, the Zoning Officer shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with section
10-18-5 of this chapter;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
10-18-6 of this chapter;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
10-18-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as-built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or flood proof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
10-18-8 of this chapter;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
10-18-9 of this chapter;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
10-18-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
10-18-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this ordinance;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, State, and Federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with State and Federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of State and Federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-18-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Officer. The Zoning Officer shall not issue
a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
10-18-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Zoning
Officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to be below
the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not identified as
floodplain on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the
provisions of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be shown
by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has
not been filled after the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map is
not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   The Zoning Officer shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map
identification.
   The Zoning Officer shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other Federal, State, and local permits, approvals or permit-not-
required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The Zoning
Officer shall not issue a permit unless all other Federal, State, and local
permits have been obtained. (Ord. 1004, 2-13-2017)
10-18-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide permit number 2;
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 3;
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 4;
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit
number 5;
      5.   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility lines,
light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding seventy (70) square feet and
raising buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any
other activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 6;
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 7;
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 8;
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 9;
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 10;
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 11;
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 12;
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide permit number 13;
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from State floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in subsection (A) of this
section may be permitted only if:
      1.   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-18-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   (A)   In addition to the State permit and damage prevention requirements of
section
10-18-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within twenty four (24) months of the date the damage
occurred.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage).
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in section
10-18-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters.
         (b)   All components located below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
         (c)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (d)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         (e)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (2)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (3)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation's wall must not exceed four
feet (4') at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry flood proofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Flood proofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered flood
proofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection (B) of this section; and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code section 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection (D) of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   The vehicle must either:
         (a)   Be entirely supported by jacks, or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate State and/or Federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred seventy six (576) square feet (24' x 24').
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-18-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The Village of North Pekin shall take into account hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
10-18-6 and
10-18-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
 
Notes
1 765 ILCS 205/2.
10-18-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
10-18-6 and
10-18-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a flood proofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or flood proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
10-18-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      4.   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permitted within the floodplain only if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall be elevated or structurally dry flood proofed to the 500-year
flood frequency elevation. In situations where a 500-year flood elevation has
not been determined the flood protection elevation shall be three feet (3')
above the 100-year flood frequency elevation. Flood proofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of
the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.  (Ord. 1040, 8-
10-2020)
10-18-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the Village of North Pekin shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-18-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Planning and Zoning Board
for a variance. The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Village of
North Pekin. The Village of North Pekin may attach such conditions to granting
of a variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   Conditions: No variance shall be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other State and Federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   Requirements: The Planning and Zoning Board shall notify an applicant
in writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protections
standards of section
10-18-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a
building will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Historic Structures:
      1.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
10-18-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
10-18-6 and
10-18-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
         (a)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
         (b)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure
being removed as a certified historic structure.
   (D)   Agriculture: Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall
be decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building's
unique circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as
well as those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the threat
to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included for any
variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at-grade and
wet-flood proofed.
      1.   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
      2.   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community's Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
      3.   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base flood
elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance with
section
10-18-7 of this chapter.
      4.   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with
section
10-18-7 of this chapter. All of the building's structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      5.   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or flood proofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, flood proofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with section
10-18-7 of this chapter.
      6.   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to the
100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters in accordance with subsection
10-18-7(B) of this chapter.
      7.   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of section
10-18-6 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway.
      8.   Wet-flood proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a licensed professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-18-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the Village of North Pekin or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-18-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Zoning Officer may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
Zoning Officer shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The Village of North Pekin shall make application to the Circuit
Court for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such
other order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this
chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The Village of North Pekin shall record a notice of violation on the
title of the property.
   (B)   The Zoning Officer shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   The Zoning Officer is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension
of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing, indicate
the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary, to
resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the Planning and Zoning Board. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Board shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the Village of North Pekin from taking
such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
10-18-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Village of
North Pekin to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program
including ordinance 697, adopted February 26, 2001. However, this chapter does
not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility
in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.  (Ord. 1040,
8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 19
STORM WATER AND EROSION CONTROL
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose
10-19-2: Definitions
10-19-3: Preconstruction Compliance
10-19-4: Storm Water Outlet
10-19-5: Certification Of Plans
10-19-6: Storm Water Retention And Allowable Discharge Rates
10-19-7: Construction Of Retention Basins
10-19-8: Provisions For Off Street Parking
10-19-9: General Subdivision Requirements
10-19-10: Exemption From Requirements
10-19-11: Penalties
10-19-12: Illicit Discharge And Connection Storm Water
10-19-12-1:    Purpose; Intent
10-19-12-2:    Definitions
10-19-12-3:    Applicability
10-19-12-4:    Responsibility For Administration
10-19-12-5:    Severability
10-19-12-6:    Ultimate Responsibility
10-19-12-7:    Discharge Prohibitions
10-19-12-8:    Suspension Of MS4 Access
10-19-12-9:    Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
10-19-12-10:    Monitoring Of Discharges
10-19-12-11:    Requirement To Prevent, Control And Reduce Storm Water
Pollutants By The Use Of Best Management Practices
10-19-12-12:    Watercourse Protection
10-19-12-13:    Notification Of Spills
10-19-12-14:    Enforcement
10-19-12-15:    Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
10-19-12-16:    Enforcement Measures After Appeal
10-19-12-17:    Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
10-19-12-18:    Injunctive Relief
10-19-12-19:    Compensatory Action
10-19-12-20:    Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
10-19-12-21:    Criminal Prosecution
10-19-12-22:    Remedies Not Exclusive
10-19-12-23:    Adoption
10-19-13: Storm Water Retention Requirements For Commercial Use
10-19-14: Storm Water Operation And Maintenance
10-19-14-1:    Definitions
10-19-14-2:    Routine Maintenance
10-19-14-3:    Nonroutine Maintenance
10-19-14-4:    Inspections
10-19-14-5:    Adoption
10-19-15: Erosion, Sediment And Storm Water Control
10-19-15-1:    Definitions
10-19-15-2:    Prohibition
10-19-15-3:    Standards For Design And Maintenance Of Control Measures For
Soil Erosion, Sediment And Storm Water
10-19-15-4:    Maintenance Of Control Measures
10-19-15-5:    Erosion And Sediment Control Permits
10-19-15-6:    Enforcement And Stop Work Order Fee
10-19-15-7:    Penalty
10-19-15-8:    Appeals To Village Board
10-19-15-9:    Effective Date
10-19-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to supplement those provisions of this code pertaining
to subdivisions, zoning and building construction and to regulate and restrict
the following:
   (A)   Subdivision, layout and improvement of land, including drainage,
underground utilities and service facilities;
   (B)   Excavating, filling, and grading of lots and other parcels and areas
of floodplains, the storing of certain materials thereon, stream and other
floodwater runoff channels, and detention ponds and basins; and
   (C)   Location, construction and elevation of buildings and other structures
and parts and appurtenances thereof, and the drainage of parking and other
paved lot areas.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
The term "development" or "improvement" shall be defined as including any one
or more of the following acts upon any lot, tract, or parcel of land within the
village: the construction, remodeling, erection of any building, structure,
parking lot, driveway, subdivision or tract of land or ground that increases
the amount of impervious land and subsequent storm water runoff from said
construction, remodeling or erection of any building, structure, parking lot,
driveway, subdivision or tract of land or ground.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-3: PRECONSTRUCTION COMPLIANCE:
Before commencing any work regulated by this chapter, any person or entity
undertaking any "development" or "improvement", as defined above, shall comply
with all requirements as set forth in all ordinances pertinent to subdivisions,
zoning and building construction and as pertain to the submission and approval
of preliminary and final subdivision plats, improvement plans, building and
zoning permits, inspections, and similar matters, together with those set forth
in this chapter and as required by state statute and regulations of any
department of the state.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-4: STORM WATER OUTLET:
No development or improvement shall be undertaken within the village unless
there is an adequate storm water outlet that will not burden or cause flooding
of any existing sewer system or retention basin that has been approved by the
village.
Prior to undertaking any such development or improvement, there shall be
provided to the village by any person or entity proposing to undertake any such
development or improvement detailed plans to the village including the
following:
   (A)   Detailed calculations demonstrating that the development or
improvement has been adequately sized for a 100-year frequency rainfall for the
watershed of the proposed location, based on applicable village, state of
Illinois department of transportation, or other approved criteria for small
tracts and peak flows.
   (B)   The existing and proposed elevations, contours, buildings, streets,
sewers, water mains, catch basins, inlets and any other surface or subsurface
structures, so designed as to ensure that storm water will be prevented from
flowing to adjacent properties without first being retained and discharged at a
proper discharge flow rate.
   (C)   Calculations and complete detail demonstrating the method of providing
for both temporary erosion control during construction and permanent erosion
control, all to be in accordance with the latest engineering practices
established by the Illinois environmental protection agency "Standard
Specifications For Erosion And Sediment Control", dated 1987.  (Ord. 1040, 8-
10-2020)
10-19-5: CERTIFICATION OF PLANS:
The calculations and specifications as provided for and to be contained in the
plans as stated in section
10-19-4 of this chapter shall be prepared by or under the supervision of a
registered professional engineer or architect of the state, and said plans,
calculations and specifications shall be signed, sealed and dated by said
engineer or architect.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-6: STORM WATER RETENTION AND ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE RATES:
There is hereby established as the allowable discharge rate from retention
areas provided for in this chapter the village design rate for a 10-year storm
with a fifteen (15) minute rainfall intensity having a runoff coefficient of
thirty five one-hundredths (0.35). Retention basins shall be so constructed as
to hold that quantity of water which is equal to the difference between the
inflow and the allowable discharge over a fifteen (15) minute flow.
Additionally, retention basins shall maintain an additional one-half foot (1/
2') vertical freeboard.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-7: CONSTRUCTION OF RETENTION BASINS:
All retention basins shall be constructed in accordance with good engineering
practices which include, but are not limited to, the temporary and permanent
prevention of soil erosion, and any person or entity proposing any development
or improvement shall include on plans to be submitted to and approved by the
village the method by which temporary and future erosion is to be controlled.
No such improvement or development shall be undertaken until such time as said
plans are approved by the North Pekin zoning department.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-
2020)
10-19-8: PROVISIONS FOR OFF STREET PARKING:
All off street parking areas of five (5) or more spaces shall provide for on
site storm water retention, catch basins, inlets and storm sewers so designed
as to collect all storm water from the improved surface. Discharge of storm
water so collected shall not be discharged across property lines or across
street rights of way in excess of the allowable rate of discharge except as
follows: Individuals or entities undertaking any development or improvement of
off street parking may apply for a modified permit exempting the same from the
above referenced requirements for off street parking areas if one or more of
the following conditions exist:
   (A)   The nearest storm sewer or open drainway is more than two hundred feet
(200') from the property line and easements are unattainable;
   (B)   The nearest storm sewer or open ditch does not have an adequate
capacity to accommodate additional storm water from the parking lot; or
   (C)   There is no reasonable storm water outlet for the proposed storage.
Notwithstanding the above exemptions, retention of storm water shall be
provided, and the modification shall be only as to the allowable rate of
outflow.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-9: GENERAL SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   All individuals or entities engaging in the development of
subdivisions shall provide and develop a sufficient gravity storm water
drainage system designed in such a manner to accomplish the following:
      1.   Provide all lots in the subdivision with a graded system that drains
by gravity to inlets, catch basins, and retention basins, through storm sewers,
ditches and drainways.
      2.   Provide sufficient retention basins and natural drainage of adequate
capacity with a minimum of one-half foot (1/2') of vertical freeboard, which
basins shall be so designed as to have an outlet.
      3.   Provide a primary basement footing drain system for those houses
with basements, and with respect to which no portion of the sanitary sewer
basement drain may be used.
   (B)   Prior to the approval of any subdivision, any individual or entity
developing the same shall provide to the zoning department for their review and
approval, and prior to the issuing of any construction permit, plans,
specifications and calculations consisting of the following:
      1.   An overall general plan drawn to scale of one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') and showing a two foot (2') interval contour map of
the land delineating thereon the following:
         (a)   Creeks;
         (b)   Streams;
         (c)   Storm sewers;
         (d)   Sanitary sewers;
         (e)   Water lines;
         (f)   Streets;
         (g)   Buildings;
         (h)   Adjacent properties;
         (i)   Watersheds; and
         (j)   Manholes.
      2.   The type and size of all pipes and other water conduits shall be
denoted.
      3.   All land elevations shall be denoted.
      4.   Said plan shall indicate manholes which shall not be spaced farther
than three hundred fifty feet (350') apart for pipe diameters of eighteen
inches (18") or less, and shall be a maximum of five hundred feet (500') apart
for pipe diameters larger than eighteen inches (18"), with said manholes to be
placed, where possible, at intersection, grade changes and alignment changes. 
(Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-10: EXEMPTION FROM REQUIREMENTS:
No individual or entity undertaking any development for improvement shall be
required to comply with the provisions of this chapter if it is sufficiently
proven that storm water control is not needed and:
   (A)   There is no reasonable storm water outlet for the proposed retention;
or
   (B)   Any new house, building or structure developed or improved as a
replacement structure is of the same square footage that it replaces. However,
the exemption provided for by this section shall not apply to the development
of a subdivision.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-11: PENALTIES:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person or entity, individually or
through an agent, employee or representative, to commence any development or
improvement without having first obtained a permit as provided for herein. Each
day that such development or improvement is undertaken without having received
the required permit shall be considered a separate offense, for which there
shall be imposed and levied a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) per
day and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day.
In addition, the zoning department, in accordance with this code, is authorized
to issue an appropriate stop work order, which order shall remain in full force
and effect until the required plans, specifications and modifications are made
and the assessment of any fines and penalties as provided for herein are paid.
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage by
the board of trustees of the village and approval by the president thereof as
provided by law.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12: ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION STORM WATER:
10-19-12-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
The purpose of this section
10-19-12 is to provide for the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the village of North Pekin, Illinois, through the regulation of
nonstorm water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This section
10-19-12 establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants
into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this section
10-19-12 are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user.
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system.
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspections,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
section
10-19-12.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section
10-19-12, the following shall mean:
AUTHORIZED   Employees or designees of the director of the municipal agency designated to
ENFORCEMENT  enforce this section
AGENCY:      10-19-12.
             Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping
BEST         practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance
MANAGEMENT   procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of
PRACTICES    pollutants directly or indirectly to storm water, receiving waters, or storm
(BMPs):      water conveyance systems. BMPs also include treatment practices, operating
             procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or
             water disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
CLEAN WATER  The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251 et seq.) and any
ACT:         subsequent amendments thereto.
             Activities subject to NPDES construction permits. Currently these include
             construction projects resulting in land disturbance of five (5) acres or more.
CONSTRUCTION Beginning in March 2003, NPDES storm water phase II permits will be required for
ACTIVITY:    construction projects resulting in land distribution of one acre or more. Such
             activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading,
             excavating and demolition.
             Any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof which
HAZARDOUS    because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious
MATERIALS:   characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to, a substantial present
             or potential hazard to human health, safety, property or the environment when
             improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL      Any direct or indirect nonstorm water discharge to the storm drain system,
DISCHARGE:   except as exempted in section
             10-19-12-7 of this chapter.
             Either of the following:
             (A)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
             allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
             limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstorm water discharge including
ILLICIT      sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
CONNECTIONS: any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
             regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
             permitted or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
             (B)   Any drain or conveyance connected from, a commercial or industrial land
             use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps or
             equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL   Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR, section
ACTIVITY:    122.26(b)(14).
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT
DISCHARGE    A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33
ELIMINATION  USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of
SYSTEM       the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or
(NPDES)      general areawide basis.
STORM WATER
DISCHARGE
PERMIT:
NONSTORM     Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of storm
WATER        water.
DISCHARGE:
             Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm, corporation or
PERSON:      other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or as the owner's
             agent.
             Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but
             are not limited to, paints, varnishes and solvents, oil and other automotive
             fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish,
             garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances and
POLLUTANT:   accumulations so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
             pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage,
             fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes;
             wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and
             noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES:    Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether improved or
             unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
             Publicly owned facilities by which storm water is collected and/or conveyed,
STORM        including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, municipal
DRAINAGE     streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities,
SYSTEM:      retention and detention basins, natural and human made or altered drainage
             channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
STORM WATER: Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form
             of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORM WATER  A document which describes the best management practices and activities to be
POLLUTION    implemented by a person or business to identify sources of pollution or
PREVENTION   contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant
PLAN:        discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance systems, and/or receiving
             waters to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER:  Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm water, discharged
             from a facility.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
 
10-19-12-3: APPLICABILITY:
This section
10-19-12 shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated on
any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by an authorized
enforcement agency.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The village of North Pekin shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this section
10-19-12. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement
agency may be delegated in writing by the director of the authorized
enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of
or in the employ of the agency.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-5: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this section
10-19-12 are hereby declared to be severable. If any provision, clause,
sentence or paragraph of this section
10-19-12 or the application thereof to any person, establishment or
circumstances shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the
other.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-6: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this section
10-19-12 are minimum standards; therefore, this section
10-19-12 does not intend nor imply that compliance by any person will ensure
that there will be no contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of
pollutants.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-7: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than storm water. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this section
10-19-12; water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground
water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water,
foundation or footing drains (not including active ground water dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated, typically less than 1 PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
      4.   The prohibition shall apply to any nonstorm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the federal environmental
protection agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of the
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this section
10-19-12 if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows
such a connection to continue.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-8: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   (A)   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
authorized enforcement agency may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension Due To Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this section
10-19-12 may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate
or reduce an illicit discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a
violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may
petition the authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-9: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm water
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
authorized enforcement agency prior to the allowing of discharge to the MS4. 
(Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-10: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   (A)   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access To Facilities:
      1.   The authorized enforcement agency shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities, subject to regulation under this section
10-19-12 as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this section
10-19-12. If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
authorized enforcement agency.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the authorized enforcement agency
ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept under the
conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the performance of
any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      3.   The authorized enforcement agency shall have the right to set up on
any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility's storm water discharge.
      4.   The authorized enforcement agency has the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the authorized enforcement agency
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the authorized enforcement agency
access to a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit
and of this section
10-19-12. A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this section
10-19-12.
      7.   If the authorized enforcement agency has been refused access to any
part of the premises from which storm water is discharged, and he/she is able
to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
section
10-19-12, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this section
10-19-12 or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public
health, safety and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement
agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent
jurisdiction.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-11: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS
BY THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
The authorized enforcement agency will adopt requirements identifying best
management practices for any activity, operation or facility which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drain
system, or waters of the United States. The owner or operator of a commercial
or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premises, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated
with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance
with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a storm water
pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-12: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse so that
such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-13: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has any information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States, such person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the authorized enforcement agency within three
(3) business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials
emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator
of such establishment shall retain an on site written record of the discharge
and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained
for a minimum of three (3) years.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Notification Of Violation: Whenever the authorized enforcement agency
finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement
of this section
10-19-12, the authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written
notice of the violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require,
without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analysis and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-15: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
fourteen (14) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the
appeal before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place
within fifteen (15) days from the date of the receipt of the notice of appeal.
The decision of the municipal authority or their designee shall be final. 
(Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-16: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or in the event of an appeal, within fourteen (14)
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-17: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within fourteen (14) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within fourteen (14) days. If the amount due is not paid within
a timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this section
10-19-12 shall become liable to the village by reason of such violation. The
liability shall be paid in not more than twelve (12) equal payments. Interest
at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum shall be assessed on the balance
beginning on the thirty first day following discovery of the violation.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-18: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this section
10-19-12. If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of
this section
10-19-12, the authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or
permanent injunction restraining the person from activities which would create
further violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation
of the violation.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-19: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by this
section
10-19-12, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-20: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
section
10-19-12 is a threat to public health, safety and welfare and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 796, 2-21-2006)
10-19-12-21: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this section
10-19-12 shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the
law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of five hundred dollars
($500.00) per violation per day and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to
exceed two (2) days. The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorney
fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this
section
10-19-12, including sampling and monitoring expenses.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-22: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this section
10-19-12 are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable
federal, state or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized
enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-12-23: ADOPTION:
This section
10-19-12 shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after its final
passage and adoption. All prior ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict
with this section
10-19-12 are hereby repealed.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-13: STORM WATER RETENTION REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL USE:
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, his agent or his
contractor to assure that any new development of previously undeveloped land
and any improvement of land for commercial use shall meet all storm water
retention requirements as set forth in subsection (C) of this section.
"Commercial use" as used herein shall include any development other than
single-family residential.
   (B)   In particular, but not by way of limitation, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner, his agent or his contractor to assure that any new
contract shall meet all storm water retention requirements as set forth in
subsection (C) of this section.
   (C)   Storm water retention requirements shall be established by the village
engineer based on the rational method for estimating peak runoff rate for a
specified design storm. The allowable runoff rate before development, Qa, and
the peak runoff rate after development, Qp, shall be determined. The required
storage volume shall be the difference in runoff rates (Qp - Qa) times the
duration of the design storm. The owner, his agent, or his contractor shall
propose a storm water retention facility which provides the required storage
volume and which restricts the rate of storm water discharge from the retention
facility such that the maximum discharge rate shall not exceed the allowable
runoff rate, Qa. Developments which are large, complex, or extra sensitive to
drainage consideration may require a more sophisticated analysis. The village
maintains the right to determine adequacy of storm water detention.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to obtain from the village
engineer, prior to construction of a new development or improvement of land for
commercial use, written approval certifying that the storm water retention
facility meets requirements. No building permit shall issue for construction of
any improvement of land for commercial use until such certification has been
obtained from the village engineer.
   (E)   Any individual, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each
day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 798, 2-21-2006)
10-19-14: STORM WATER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
10-19-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
BEST
MANAGEMENT Structural device, measure, facility, or activity that helps to achieve
PRACTICE   storm water management control objectives at a designated site.
(BMP):
           A document approved at the site design phase that outlines the measures
PLAN:      and practices used to control storm water runoff at a site.  (Ord. 1040,
           8-10-2020)
 
10-19-14-2: ROUTINE MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   All storm water BMPs shall be maintained according to the measures
outlined in the most recent version of the local or state storm water manual,
and as approved in the permit.
   (B)   The person(s) or organization(s) responsible for maintenance shall be
designated in the plan. Options include:
      1.   Property owner, provided that a maintenance agreement has been
recorded with the village.
      2.   Homeowners' association, provided that provisions for financing
necessary maintenance are included in deed restrictions or other contractual
agreements.
      3.   Storm water management agency.
   (C)   Maintenance agreements shall specify responsibilities for financing
maintenance.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-14-3: NONROUTINE MAINTENANCE:
"Nonroutine maintenance" includes maintenance activities that are expensive but
infrequent, such as pond dredging or major repairs to storm water structures.
   (A)   Nonroutine maintenance shall be performed on an as-needed basis based
on information gathered during regular inspections.
   (B)   If nonroutine maintenance activities are not completed in a timely
manner or as specified in the approved plan, the village of North Pekin may
complete the necessary maintenance at the owners'/operators' expense.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-14-4: INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   The person(s) or organization(s) responsible for maintenance shall
inspect storm water BMPs on a regular basis as outlined in the plan.
   (B)   Authorized representatives of the village of North Pekin may enter at
reasonable times to conduct on site inspections or routine maintenance.
   (C)   For BMPs maintained by the property owner or homeowners' association,
inspection and maintenance reports shall be filed with the village of North
Pekin as provided for in the plan.
   (D)   Authorized representatives of the village of North Pekin may conduct
inspections to confirm the information in the reports filed under subsection
(C) of this section.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-14-5: ADOPTION:
This section
10-19-14 shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after its final
passage and adoption. All prior ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict
with this section
10-19-14 are hereby repealed.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-15: EROSION, SEDIMENT AND STORM WATER CONTROL:
10-19-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section
10-19-15, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise:
CONTROL MEASURE:   Any temporary or permanent measure to control erosion,
                   sediment and storm water runoff.
DISTURBED AREA:    Any area of land on which the ground surface will be
                   affected or altered by any land disturbing activity.
EROSION CONTROL    The person appointed by the village to administer this
ADMINISTRATOR:     section
                   10-19-15.
5-YEAR FREQUENCY   The storm event rainfall depth during a twenty four (24)
STORM EVENT:       hour period which is exceeded, on the average, once every
                   five (5) years.
                   Any change in land, which may result in soil erosion from
                   water or wind and the movement of sediments into state or
                   county waters or onto lands in the county, or a change in
LAND DISTURBING    the amount and/or intensity of storm water runoff,
ACTIVITY:          including, but not limited to, the covering with an
                   impervious surface, stockpiling, clearing, grading,
                   excavating, rehabilitating, transporting, depositing or
                   filling of land.
                   Any control measure installed between the down slope side
PERIMETER CONTROL: of the disturbed area and the property line and/or
                   between the down slope side of the disturbed area and any
                   area of concentrated flow.
PERMIT SITE:       The lot or parcel for which an erosion and sediment
                   control permit is issued.
                   The Illinois environmental protection agency's "Illinois
                   Urban Manual, A Technical Manual Designed For Urban
                   Ecosystem Protection And Enhancement" published in 1995
                   and "Illinois Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil
STANDARDS:         Erosion And Sedimentation Control" published in 1988 by
                   the urban committee of the Association of Illinois Soil
                   and Water Conservation Districts now in effect, or as
                   hereafter amended, which is incorporated by reference
                   herein as "standards".
VILLAGE:           The village of North Pekin, Illinois.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-
                   2020)
 
10-19-15-2: PROHIBITION:
No person shall engage in any land disturbing activity on property within the
village unless an erosion and sediment control permit has been issued for such
land disturbing activity, except as follows:
   (A)   Land disturbing activities (other than the construction of new single-
or two-family dwellings) for which the disturbed area is less than five
thousand (5,000) square feet.
   (B)   Activities associated with the preparation and tilling of land for the
purposes of growing crops, or raising livestock, which may include, but are not
limited to, the construction of conservation measures, plowing, disking and
cultivating.
   (C)   Routine maintenance of roads, accessways and utility lines.  (Ord.
1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-15-3: STANDARDS FOR DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES FOR SOIL
EROSION, SEDIMENT AND STORM WATER:
   (A)   Erosion And Sediment Control Measures: All control measures required
under this section
10-19-15 shall conform to the standards now in effect or as hereafter amended.
All control measures installed shall be sufficient to prevent sediment from
leaving the permit site during a 5-year frequency storm event. When sediment
does leave the permit site, the owner, developer or contractor shall remove the
sediment by the end of the workday. For example, installing a rock construction
drive or cleaning tires could be used to minimize tracking of sediment onto
public roads.    (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-15-4: MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES:
   (A)   Erosion, Sediment, And Temporary Storm Water Control Measures: Control
measures shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating any land
disturbing activity. Control measures are to be maintained so they are
operating effectively until permanent ground surface protection is established
in a manner specified in the applicable permit issued pursuant to this section
10-19-15. Control measures (including, but not limited to, perimeter controls)
shall remain in place until the ground is stabilized with permanent ground
cover. The intent of this section
10-19-15 is to keep the sites protected at all times until the ground is
permanently stabilized. When temporary control measures need to be removed in
order to establish permanent ground cover, the temporary control measures may
be removed if one of the conditions listed below will be met. In no way does
adhering to one of the conditions below relieve the owner of responsibility to
clean up or repair any damages caused from sediment or storm water runoff
leaving the permit site.
      1.   Permanent ground cover shall be established with pavement, aggregate
or sod within three (3) days of the removal of sediment barriers.
      2.   Permanent vegetation shall be established by seeding with anchored
mulch within three (3) days of removal of sediment barriers during the spring
or fall seeding periods. However, on project areas with slopes not exceeding
five percent (5%), permanent vegetation shall be established by seeding within
three (3) days of the removal of sediment barriers during the spring or fall
seeding periods. Summer seeding is acceptable on project areas which shall be
watered. This does not apply to concentrated flow areas.
   (B)   Additional Control Measures: The erosion control administrator may
require additional control measures pursuant to the standards at any time if
determined as such after any site inspection.    (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-15-5: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PERMITS:
Before commencing land disturbing activity not exempted under section
10-19-15-2 of this chapter, the owner of the land, or his representative, shall
be required to file an application for an erosion and sediment control permit.
   (A)   Application: The applicant shall file the application with the village
on forms provided by the village. The fee for an application shall be one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) for each permit. However, no fee shall be
required for any project which is agricultural, or initiated by a local unit of
government. There shall be no refund of any fees paid and no application shall
be accepted for filing unless the fee has been paid in full.
   (B)   Application Review: Review of an erosion and sediment control permit
application shall be limited to verifying that the required information and
permit fee have been provided and that it meets the standards. The erosion
control administrator shall approve or deny the application within five (5)
working days of the filing of a completed application. If the permit is denied,
it shall be returned to the applicant with a written explanation of its denial.
The application shall be deemed approved if no response is made within the time
frames provided above.
   (C)   Duration: The erosion and sediment control permit shall be issued for
a period not exceeding two (2) years.
   (D)   Content Of Erosion And Sediment Control Permit: The erosion and
sediment control permit shall, by this reference, contain the following general
conditions (whether or not these conditions are stated in the permit itself):
      1.   That written approval be obtained from the erosion control
administrator prior to making any modification to the erosion and sediment
control plan set forth in the application; and
      2.   That all control measures identified in the application shall be
installed; and
      3.   That all control measures shall be maintained during the
construction; and
      4.   Such other conditions as the erosion control administrator deems
appropriate to ensure compliance with specific requirements and intent of this
section
10-19-15.    (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-15-6: ENFORCEMENT AND STOP WORK ORDER FEE:
   (A)   This section
10-19-15 shall be administered and enforced by the erosion control
administrator, who shall make, or cause to be made, periodic inspections of all
work authorized by permits issued in accordance with this section
10-19-15 to ensure that said construction is in compliance with the provisions
of the same; he shall make, or cause to be made, investigations of violations
of this section
10-19-15 and shall cause any violations to be corrected.
   (B)   Any permit issued pursuant to this section
10-19-15 shall be revoked by the erosion control administrator when he finds
from personal inspection or from competent evidence that the rules, regulations
or standards under which said permit was issued are being violated. To defray
costs of administering stop work orders posted by the erosion control
administrator as a result of a violation of any of the terms of this section
10-19-15, a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) plus ten dollars
($10.00) per day that the violation exists per stop work order will be
charged.    (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-15-7: PENALTY:
The violation of any of the terms of this section
10-19-15 shall constitute an offense punishable by a fine not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) with each day the
violation remains uncorrected constituting a separate offense. Such fine is in
addition to any other remedy provided by law.    (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-15-8: APPEALS TO VILLAGE BOARD:
   (A)   Any person directly aggrieved by any decision, order, requirement, or
determination of the erosion control administrator made pursuant to this
section
10-19-15 shall have the right to appeal such action to the village board. Such
appeal shall be made within thirty five (35) days from the date of the action
appealed from, shall be filed in writing, and shall include a short, concise
statement of why the action is being appealed. The fee for such appeal shall be
forty five dollars ($45.00) payable to the village and is due with the appeal.
In addition, the person filing the appeal shall pay all required publication
costs associated with the appeal.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the village shall put the appeal
on the agenda for the next village board meeting. The village board may affirm,
modify or reverse any appealed action.    (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-19-15-9: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This section
10-19-15 shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication as required by law. All prior ordinances and parts of
ordinances in conflict with this section
10-19-15 are hereby repealed.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 20
SETBACK ZONE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-20-1: Purpose
10-20-2: Definitions
10-20-3: Prohibitions
10-20-4: Waivers, Exceptions, And Certifications Of Minimal Hazard
10-20-5: Exclusion
10-20-1: PURPOSE:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-125-
4; 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/14.2 and 5/14.3; and in the interest of
securing the public health, safety, and welfare; to preserve the quality and
quantity of ground water resources in order to assure a safe and adequate water
supply for present and future generations; and to preserve ground water
resources currently in use and those aquifers having a potential for future use
as a public water supply, the provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all
properties located within the minimum setback zone established under section
14.2 of the Environmental Protection Act (the Act) 1 , and this Chapter, and
the maximum setback zone established under section 14.3 of the Act 2  and this
Chapter.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
 
Notes
1 415 ILCS 5/14.2.
2 415 ILCS 5/14.3.
10-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as stated in this Chapter, and unless a different meaning of a word or
term is clear from the context, the definition of words or terms in this
Chapter shall be the same as those used in the Act and the Illinois Groundwater
Protection Act 1 .
 
ACT:    The Environmental Protection Act 2 .
AGENCY: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
BOARD:  The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
MAXIMUM The area around a community water supply well established under section 14.2
SETBACK of the Act and this Chapter, and described in Appendix A.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-
ZONE:   2020)
 
 
Notes
1 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
2 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
10-20-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   Except as provided in Section
10-20-4 or
10-20-5 of this Chapter, no person shall place a new potential primary source,
new potential secondary source, or new potential route within the minimum
setback zone.
   (B)   Except as provided in Section
10-20-4 of this Chapter, no person shall place a new potential primary source
within the maximum setback zone.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-20-4: WAIVERS, EXCEPTIONS, AND CERTIFICATIONS OF MINIMAL HAZARD:
   (A)   If, pursuant to section 14.2(b) of the Act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is granted a waiver by the Agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a
waiver to same extent from subsection
10-20-3(A) of this Chapter.
   (B)   If, pursuant to section 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than landfilling or land treating), new
potential secondary source, or new potential route is granted an exception by
the Board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent
from subsection
10-20-3(A) of this Chapter.
   (C)   If, pursuant to section 14.2(c) of the Act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than landfilling or land treating) is granted
an exception by the Board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to
the same extent from subsection
10-20-3(B) of this Chapter.
   (D)   If, pursuant to section 14.5 of the Act, the owner of a new potential
primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential route is
issued a certificate of minimal hazard by the Agency, such owner shall not be
subject to subsection
10-20-3(A) of this Chapter to the same extent that such owner is not subject to
section 14.2(d) of the Act.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-20-5: EXCLUSION:
Subsection
10-20-3(A) of this Chapter shall not apply to new common sources of sanitary
pollution as specified pursuant to the Act and the regulations adopted
thereunder by the Agency; however, no such common sources may be located within
the applicable minimum distance from a community water supply well specified by
such regulations.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 21
A-1 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-21-1: Uses Permitted
10-21-2: Area And Bulk Requirements
10-21-3: Aerial Spraying
10-21-1: USES PERMITTED:
   (A)   Crop farming.
   (B)   Gardening, including truck farming.
   (C)   Greenhouses.
   (D)   Plant nurseries.
   (E)   Orchards.
   (F)   One-family detached dwelling.
   (G)   Uses similar and/or accessory to the above permitted uses.
   (H)   Parks and recreation areas owned or operated by a unit of government.
(Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-21-2: AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
Area and bulk regulations shall be the same as that provided for R-1 single-
family dwellings in this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-21-3: AERIAL SPRAYING:
Any crop requiring aerial spraying more than three feet (3') above the ground
shall be located at least two hundred feet (200') from the side or rear lot
lines and one hundred fifty feet (150') from any front lot line.  (Ord. 1040,
8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 22
C-1 CONSERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-22-1: Use Regulations
10-22-2: Area Regulations
10-22-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth herein or elsewhere in this title when referred to in
this chapter are the district regulations in the C-1 conservation district.
   (A)   Permitted uses:
   Accessory buildings and uses.
   Antennas which are to be installed on existing towers or other structures.
   Group homes for people with disabilities in which no more than six (6)
unrelated persons reside, where the residence or operator has obtained the
proper license or certification from the state of Illinois, and the group home
is located at least three hundred fifty feet (350') of any existing community
residence as measured from lot line to lot line.
   One-family dwellings.
   Public owned parks and forest preserves.
   TV satellite receiving antenna if it complies with the conditions set forth
in section
10-2-8 of this title.
   (B)   Special uses:
   Cemeteries.
   Certain construction activities within a steep slope zone in accordance with
the provisions of this title.
   Churches and temples, but only when located upon a zoning lot containing
three (3) or more acres and upon a major or heavily traveled street.
   Colleges and universities.
   Emergency shelters.
   Group homes for which the state of Illinois does not require a license or
certification.
   Group homes in which more than six (6) unrelated persons reside.
   Group homes that are located within three hundred fifty feet (350') of any
existing community residence as measured from lot line to lot line.
   Halfway houses.
   Horticultural activities such as farming, truck gardens and nurseries, where
no sale of products is conducted in a building on the premises.
   Hospices.
   Outdoor dish antennas which do not meet the conditions set forth in section
10-2-8 of this title.
   Planned developments.
   Private or public country clubs and golf courses, but not courses lighted
for night play or driving ranges.
   Public elementary and high schools and parochial and private schools having
curriculums similar to those in public schools.
   The siting and construction of a small wind energy conversion system which
complies with section
10-2-9 of this title.
   The storage of equipment or tools of trade belonging solely to the occupant
of the property and used by the occupant in his business or profession. Any
such special use permit which is granted pursuant to this section shall be
subject to a requirement that any such equipment or tools of trade must at all
times be stored completely within the interior of an accessory building. Under
no circumstances shall any such special use permit authorize the operation of a
business, trade or occupation from the subject premises unless such business or
profession qualifies as a home occupation under the provisions of this title.
   Towers complying with the provisions of this code.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-22-2: AREA REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Setback: No building shall be erected closer than twenty five feet
(25') nor more than fifty six feet (56') from any street. Unenclosed covered
porches, the floors of which are not higher than the level of the first floor,
may not encroach on such restricted areas.
   (B)   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback.
   (C)   Side Yard: Except as may be hereinafter provided, there shall be a
side yard on each side of the building having a width of not less than five
feet (5') except that a detached garage or other outbuilding located sixty feet
(60') or more from the front property line may be located within two feet (2')
of the side lot line.
   Uncovered porches or terraces may, however, be built and maintained within
any part of such free and open spaces, so long as they do not encroach within
three feet (3') of a lot dimension line.
   (D)   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall consist of twenty percent (20%) of the
area of the lot.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 23
C-2 CONSERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-23-1: Use Regulations
10-23-2: Area Regulations
10-23-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth herein or elsewhere in this title when referred to in
this chapter are the district regulations in the C-2 conservation district.
   (A)   Permitted uses:
   Accessory buildings and uses.
   Antennas which are to be installed on existing towers or other structures.
   Group homes for people with disabilities in which no more than six (6)
unrelated persons reside, where the residence or operator has obtained the
proper license or certification from the state of Illinois, and the group home
is located at least three hundred fifty feet (350') of any existing community
residence as measured from lot line to lot line.
   One-family dwellings.
   Public owned parks and forest preserves.
   Shotgun and bow hunting only on property containing a minimum of twenty (20)
acres.
   TV satellite receiving antenna if it complies with the conditions set forth
in section
10-2-8 of this title.  (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
10-23-2: AREA REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Setback: No building shall be erected closer than twenty five feet
(25') nor more than fifty six feet (56') from any street. Unenclosed covered
porches, the floors of which are not higher than the level of the first floor,
may not encroach on such restricted areas.
   (B)   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback.
   (C)   Side Yard: Except as may be hereinafter provided, there shall be a
side yard on each side of the building having a width of not less than five
feet (5') except that a detached garage or other outbuilding located sixty feet
(60') or more from the front property line may be located within two feet (2')
of the side lot line.
   Uncovered porches or terraces may, however, be built and maintained within
any part of such free and open spaces, so long as they do not encroach within
three feet (3') of a lot dimension line.
   (D)   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall consist of twenty percent (20%) of the
area of the lot. (Ord. 1040, 8-10-2020)
